DURBAN - A LEADING global cyber security provider recently highlighted a number of major cyber-risks that come with being registered on video game platforms. Check Point® Software Technologies Ltd regional director Pankaj Bhula provided insight on how cyber criminals were using gaming platforms as their new gateway during the pandemic. “Lockdown has led to a huge upsurge in the use of game consoles to keep children and teenagers entertained throughout the long hours of being cooped up indoors. Europe is now the second most active gaming region, with 668 million gamers, a report by DFC Intelligence stated. As a result, video gamers have increasingly become a target for cyber criminals, especially since most players have associated accounts, containing bank details, personal information, email, etc,” said Bhula. According to Bhula, these are some of the major cyber risks associated with video games and ways in which people can avoid them: 1. Downloading from unofficial sites People tend to use unofficial video sites as a cost-cutting measure. However, there was no guarantee that personal details, such as banking details, would remain confidential to the host. “To avoid such risks, Check Point® Software Technologies Ltd recommends always downloading from official websites and not resorting, under any circumstances, to websites of dubious origin.” 2. Bank identity theft The digital revolution has contributed to a rise in the number of people buying video games virtually, rather than from physical stores. Online payments sometimes require the use of bank details and whenever there’s online payments, cyber criminals are always looking for a way to attack. “When making an online payment, it is essential to make sure that the website you are entering has all the necessary security measures in place. To do this, you need to check whether it contains the letters https:// at the beginning of the URL of the search engine. “These letters indicate that the page in question is protected by an SSL certificate, a type of digital security that allows encrypted communication between a website and a web browser, protecting all the data entered.” 3. Phishing attacks Bhula said cyber criminals have an added advantage when it comes to video games, because most video gamers were children, without knowledge of how to spot phishing attacks. They use phishing tools, such as emails and text messages, that request for a change of passwords due to a technical error. “To protect against these, never click on any links contained in emails from unknown senders, and never download any attachments. The best option is to go to the game’s official website, log into your account and check that the content of the email is genuine.” 4. The use of camera, microphone, and location permissions Mobile applications and games ask for permission to use a camera, microphone and location, as required by companies. “Most social networks and video game platforms make it a mandatory condition to have all these permissions activated and, without them, it is not possible to access the functions they offer – but, as far as possible, they should be disabled if possible, to protect the devices.” Daily News