DURBAN - FRESH from being implicated in payments made to service providers who did not do any work, Amanda Bani has surprisingly found her voice as a young member of the KZN Legislature who calls for a radical youth programme. Bani turned 35 on June 16. The official definition of “youth” in South Africa and on the continent stands at the ceiling age of 35. This is her final year of "youth" status. What has she achieved for young people during her tenure of being a youth? It is well-known that her position as ANC Youth League chairperson in eThekwini served as tokenism of women representation in leadership. Under her chairpersonship, it continued to be ruled by men, such as secretary Thinta Cibane, who made all the decisions. Bani's voice was never heard, she was never seen. The SA Local Government Bargaining Council’s findings against Bani come as no surprise, that she “failed to perform her duties diligently, honestly and to the best of her ability”, that she even “kept quiet about corrupt conduct in her presence”, and that she allegedly “knew of fraudulent payments”. When these were investigated, she immediately resigned as the integrated development plan (IDP) manager at the eThekwini Municipality. Bani calls on her government “to radically change the state of the youth in the country”. She questions the “snail’s pace in changing young people’s lives for the better”. Yet as IDP manager she made zero recommendations for the IDP to be focused on youth development. This IDP is in the public domain. As the current chairperson of the sports and recreation portfolio committee at the KZN Legislature, what policy has Bani proclaimed for the KZN Sport and Recreation Department's programmes to be youth-centric aimed at taking them off the streets? As in her words, “most of the people that were found under the bridges were mainly youth who had lost hope of finding employment”. The ANC step-aside resolution for corruption accused must not shield young people. All must feel its effects - young and old. Corruption has no age. Accused of corruption, one must step aside. PHATHISIZWE MVELASE | KwaMashu Daily News