DURBAN - PRESIDENTIAL hopeful Duduzane Zuma has received the nod from members of the ANC Ward 11 in Quarry Heights in Reservoir Hills, throwing their support behind Zuma who was tipped to be elected as the branch’s chairperson when it launches. Newlands East ANC councillor Joyce Johnson said the people were ready to be led by a young person and had decided to support former president Jacob Zuma’s son as a contestant for the ANC presidential position. Johnson was speaking on Saturday during an event aimed at introducing Zuma to the community. “This gathering here is an official ANC programme, and we must emphasise this because we don’t want people confusing this with other things. It is time to put this area on the map and we are ready to be led. We throw our support behind him and call on others to give him a chance to lead this branch and show people what he can do to changes lives.” Johnson said Zuma was assertive, was a regular in the area and consistently assisted local schools with resources. Zuma said he had spoken to the residents who indicated that they needed various interventions in many areas. He committed to assisting young people who had recently matriculated, but were still unemployed. Women were also going to be a top priority. “Poverty is a mother of two things: it can either give birth to a criminal or a revolutionary. We must choose right and become the revolution we desire. We must take charge and change the systems. We can no longer wait for anyone because the only time we get to see them is when they ask for our votes, but disappear after that. “Ward 11 will be a great example of what change is… we will be the first to deliver meaningful change. Not only will we take it to the national level, but we will change people’s lives because we know what has to be done, and how. The year 2022 we are coming and we will be there beyond 2024.” Zuma told the Daily News he had no intention of contesting at a regional level because his priority was to lead at the national level. Daily News