DURBAN - POLITICAL analysts have urged the KwaZulu-Natal government to take full administrative control of uMkhanyakude district municipality after another council meeting collapsed on Tuesday. This was the sixth consecutive time that a council meeting had failed to constitute a quorum. This was after the IFP boycotted it and three ANC councillors did not arrive for the meeting. The ongoing power struggle between the IFP and ANC has been at the centre of the crisis that engulfed the municipality since the government appointed an administrator earlier this year. The IFP snatched control of the municipality and appointed Tim Moodley as mayor in March after the ANC boycotted a council meeting, but the ANC has been trying to take it back through various motions which have been unsuccessful. Analysts said the only option for the government was to take full control of the municipality for the benefit of communities who needed services. UCT lecturer Bheki Mngomezulu, who comes from the district, said the provincial government must dissolve the municipality – and it must be run directly by the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) or a fresh election should be held. His words were echoed by independent analyst Thabani Khumalo who said Cogta MEC Sipho Hlomuka was empowered by law to take over the administration of the municipality. “It would not make sense to run fresh elections with only four months left until the local government elections. MEC Hlomuka must appoint a team of administrators to ensure services go to the people until October, when residents will find another opportunity to elect leaders of their choice,” said Khumalo. The ANC had planned to take over the municipality from the IFP by passing a vote of no confidence and removing Moodley as mayor. IFP caucus leader Makhosonke Sithole said on Tuesday their councillors boycotted the meeting because the items he had forwarded were not included on the agenda. ANC speaker Thokozani Ngema said the meeting had to be adjourned because the IFP did not come and three ANC councillors submitted sick notes. The IFP on Monday told the Daily News that they were going to boycott the meeting should it be continued without items on the agenda. The party said it had the support of other ANC councillors who were not happy about how their party had run the municipality before. If all 16 ANC councillors were present, the quorum would be met and voting would continue. Provincial Cogta spokesperson Senzo Mzila said the MEC would receive a report from the administrator before deciding on the way forward. Daily News