DURBAN-BORN global music icon Nkosinathi Maphumulo, also known as Black Coffee, has partnered with the eThekwini Municipality in an advert to promote Durban Tourism on the world stage. This was also part of him giving back to the community. The Durban Tourism Vignettes was unveiled at Max’s Lifestyle venue in uMlazi. Deputy city manager Philip Sithole said Black Coffee appeared pro bono for the adverts to promote Durban to international music lovers and tourists who want to explore the Metro, the township cuisine, and many activities on offer. “This is Black Coffee’s contribution to Durban Tourism and township economy upliftment,” said Sithole. Daily News Reporter @GcwalisileKhan1 interviewing @RealBlackCoffee during a Durban Tourism Vignette Launch at Max's Lifestyle today#DurbanVignetteLaunch#DurbanHasMore pic.twitter.com/ytnMjKelFN Sithole said the municipality chose Black Coffee because he could tell a township story and had a huge following in the country and abroad. “We are Durban tourism. Our purpose is to promote the city of Durban in various parts of the country and abroad. In spite of Covid-19, we feel that we still need to go all out and promote Durban and townships,” said Sithole. Sithole added that Black Coffee had previously performed at the city’s various gigs and shows, to promote townships. Black Coffee said he was very passionate about Durban, and his love emanated from the fact that this was his birthplace. “I think we are the only place in the world that has “ama-grootman” – brothers who are not your blood brothers, but care so much about moulding you to become a better person,” said Black Coffee. He thanked DJ Tira and DJ Sox (Durban’s Finest), for creating a platform in the entertainment industry at an early stage. “Max (Mqadi) has a vision to turn uMlazi into Dubai. I say we can, and let the people experience world-class entertainment here in Durban and uMlazi.” He emphasised that he had been given an opportunity “to shout to the world about how great Durban is”. “I’d like the world to know about our people, our music, how warm we are, and how we dance,” said Black Coffee. While he sympathised with Covid-19-stricken industry icons, he condemned the incident where artists illegally blocked the N3 freeway last year, as a protest against their current struggles. “As a Durbanite, I saw artists going on the freeway, blocking the road. That was not supposed to happen. But it has, and did not end well with the artists. My question is: what are we going to do, going forward, to ensure that we have good leaders?” Asked about how he had managed to stay afloat during Covid-19, he said he had other business interests outside of music. Despite his achievements, he never viewed himself as an icon. He advised youngsters, who aspired to make their marks on global stages, to stay true to themselves and follow their hearts. Businessman and AmaZulu FC owner Sandile Zungu said they were looking at links to influence society and create social cohesion. Max’s Lifestyle owner Max Mqadi said it was “a great honour” to see Black Coffee coming back to where he belonged, and he encouraged other icons to uplift their communities. “I thank Durban for launching the vignettes in the township. I took the risk and developed a township business, and now it has become a multi-million rand business,” said Mqadi. Daily News