DURBAN - THE Kwandengezi Office, near Pinetown, was robbed at gunpoint on Wednesday morning and suspects fled with an undisclosed amount of money, 49 Sassa cards and two laptops. South African Social Service Agency (Sassa) spokesperson Sandy Godlwana said five armed men allegedly pointed guns at the teller, after she was dropped off at the back entrance, and instructed her to open the gate and the door. Godlwana was yet to release a detailed statement. However, KwaZulu-Natal Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele confirmed the incident. “It is alleged that this (Thursday) morning, an employee was opening the business premises, in the KwaNdengezi area, when she was confronted by a group of armed suspects who instructed her not to make any noise,” Mbele said. At gunpoint, the suspects forced an employee to open the safe. “They took an undisclosed amount of cash, laptops, and a cellphone, before fleeing the crime scene on foot,” she said. A case of robbery was opened at KwaNdengezi Police Station for investigation. Last week, a substitute team came to the rescue of traumatised post office employees, after an armed robbery at the Howick offices. “A complainant alleged that while she was performing her duties at Somme Street in Howick, she was confronted by a group of armed suspects,” said police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala. The suspects reportedly gained entrance through a small open window. They forced all staff to go to the parcel office, where they locked them inside. “They took cell phones and an undisclosed amount of cash, and fled the scene. A case of robbery was opened at Howick SAPS. The docket will be taken to the Hawks for further investigation,” said Gwala. In the same week, there was also a burglary at the post office in Glencoe. The post office was broken into on Wednesday night, laptops and both Sassa and SA Post Office cards were stolen. At the time, Sassa confirmed that R120 000, as well as two laptops, with grant application systems and Sassa payment cards. Police confirmed the break-in. The two incidents came as Sassa grants were being paid out to older persons throughout the province. Daily News