DURBAN - HILLCREST Tops in collaboration with Musgrave Spirits hosted a gin and art event which served as a recovery strategy from the negative impacts of Covid-19 on artists. The event was inspired by Jasmine Jagger, a Cape Town-based artist who gifted Simone Musgrave, her friend, a piece she had put together during the lockdown. Musgrave is also the founder of Musgrave Spirits. “Jasmine gave me a gift of a painting that she had drawn during the lockdown. We are both entrepreneurs who had been set back by the pandemic and so we decided to do an event that would boost our businesses,” said Musgrave. The painting also paid tribute to the explorer Maurice Boon Musgrave, Musgrave’s grandfather, who ventured from England to Africa. "Musgrave Spirits are an expression of my family heritage and my story as a woman in business in Africa. Our drinks also speak to my love for beautiful brands and products. Musgrave is a celebration of those moments we treasure in our memories,” said Musgrave. Chef Andrew Cloete, together with the KwikSpar Deli kitchen chefs, wowed their guests with canapés filled with Norwegian salmon roses on cream cheese and lemon dip, among other things. Guests also had a taste of other mouth-watering goodies from the Spar Deli kitchen. Guests sipped on the Musgrave Eleven Gin served with tonic and chose from a variety of garnishes. The event was also in preparation of World Gin Day, which took place on Saturday. “We feel blessed to have Hillcrest Tops as a platform to bring thought leaders, industry players and artists together while celebrating the spirit of collaboration. As Pablo Picasso once said, art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life,” said Mike Egling, owner of Hillcrest Tops and Hillcrest Kwikspar. Local artists such as Helga Pearson, Sibusiso Duma, Jodie Stainton and Kim Thunder were also part of the event. They were featured in the hope of fostering future collaborations between the artists and industry leaders in more events like this. Daily News