DURBAN - OPPOSITION parties have hailed the Constitutional Court judgment against former president Jacob Zuma, saying it was a victory for justice in South Africa. The court found Zuma guilty of being in contempt of court and sentenced him to 15 months’ imprisonment. DA leader John Steenhuisen said: “This is one of the most important Concourt judgments in the history of our democracy because it confirms that no one can stand above the law in South Africa. Not even a former president who still enjoys strong support within the ruling party. “This is a major day for the DA. For 12 years we have pursued the case against Jacob Zuma relentlessly. We did so, often with very little public and media support, because we knew it was the right thing to do. “Long before Zuma was public enemy number one, we rang the alarm that he was destroying the institutions of democracy and subverting the constitutional order, to enrich his friends and family.” He claimed Zuma was for years protected and cosseted by the ANC, which defended him, “knowing full well what he was doing to South Africa”. The IFP called the judgment a victory for the rule of law. “The IFP noted the Constitutional Court ruling handed down this (on Tuesday) morning, on former president Jacob Zuma’s defiance of the rule of law and acting in contempt of court by not subjecting himself to the due legal processes by appearing before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture,” said spokesperson Mkhuleko Hlengwa. He said the matter would not have gone this far had the former president complied with the commission’s directive. The party hoped Zuma would respect and honour the ruling, and comply with the order that he must submit himself to the police within the next five days. The IFP called for calm “as everyone is aware of the volatile situation at present”. It implored Zuma’s supporters to act with restraint and accept the ruling. Meanwhile, the ANC indicated at a press briefing that it would discuss the ruling at its national executive committee meeting this weekend. “The ANC has previously encouraged people to respect law enforcement agencies and the rule of law. We are committed to protecting our Constitution as well as our courts,” said spokesperson Pule Mabe. KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala on Tuesday posted on his Facebook page: “The judgment of the Concourt bears far-reaching implications for the ANC and the country. President Zuma remains one of those who sacrificed a lot for this country.” The Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association president Kebby Maphatsoe said: “We are disappointed … and we don’t encourage president Zuma to hand himself to court.” Zuma’s son, Edward, told the media last night that he was going to lay down his life in defence of his father. He said that before the police could send Zuma senior to jail, they would first have to overcome him. “I will lay down my life for (former) president Zuma. They are not going to take him to prison when I am still alive. So they have to kill me first, I insist on that,” he said. | Additional reporting by Sihle Mavuso Daily News