DURBAN - REFLECTING on his 100 days in office since his appointment on March 9 as KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Human Settlements and Public Works, Jomo Sibiya said the lives of black people must be changed by this government. He was speaking at the offices of Independent Media in Durban where he revealed that he was determined to change people’s lives through several interventions from his provincial department. He emphasised that the government should do away with delaying the completion of government programmes in areas of infrastructure. “We can’t spend five years working on projects which are never completed. People living in informal settlements must never be treated as secondary citizens in this country.” Informal settlements should be formalised so that these communities were recognised as formal settlements and services must be provided just as they were in other established communities, he said. Speaking on the issue of illegal occupation of buildings in Durban by members of uMkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKVA), Sibiya said he was engaging the convenor, Zibuse Cele, and had agreed to meet him to try to forge a way forward. “We will be irresponsible and abdicating our responsibility as a government if we allow any member of society to occupy an unsafe building which has no running water, and has no electricity. “We are obliged to meet all relevant stakeholders so that we build on the foundation laid over the years by the pathfinders of this freedom,” said Sibiya. The vets had demanded the government provide them with decent housing as per its promise after they returned from exile in the early ’90s. Sibiya said the vets should never be disregarded and added that his department would have a meeting with Lindiwe Sisulu, Minister of Human Settlements, Water and Sanitation, to discuss, among other issues, the roll-out of human settlements for military veterans. “Both departments remain committed to speed up the process because we believe that as we celebrate 27 years of our freedom and democracy, they need to be central in that celebration because we are where we are because of their sacrifices,” said Sibiya. The MEC also spoke on closing the gap on corruption within his department. He said that he has launched more than 16 forensic investigations since taking office. “Four members of staff have received final written warnings and one (was) dismissed. Two were put on three months’ suspension without pay and received final written warnings. One staff member was placed on one month’s suspension without pay and given a final written warning. Four received verbal warnings and three have disciplinary actions pending.” Daily News