DURBAN - PHOENIX crime fighter Gareth Naidoo could be discharged from hospital on Monday after being stabbed four times in his hand when he responded to a theft in progress at a client’s home. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said the homeowner was inside his house when he noticed a man removing water pipes. Gwala said the owner called his security company. When the security officer approached the man, he was stabbed multiple times. Gwala said Naidoo managed to draw his firearm and shoot his attacker. He was shot dead, and a knife was found on him. Naidoo, 27, is the operations manager at private security company, KZN VIP Unit. His father, Glen Naidoo, said the KZN VIP command centre had received a telephone call from a client on Sunford Drive who reported a suspected thief on the property on Friday. “Gareth had taken an ambulance for a vehicle inspection nearby. In the meantime, a second call comes from the client saying there was an armed intruder on the property who could be stealing copper pipes. More vehicles were dispatched to back up the first vehicle. “Gareth saw the message and decided to assist and went to the address. When Gareth entered the property and conducted a search, he was confronted by the intruder,” Glen Naidoo said. “The intruder attacked Gareth with a knife and stabbed him several times in his left hand. My son shielded himself from possible fatal blows. “Armed with his pistol Gareth shot the intruder dead. We would like to thank all the well-wishers for their prayers and support,” Glen Naidoo said. Phoenix police are investigating a case of attempted murder and theft. Reacting to the news on Facebook, Myron Prince said: “Thousands more criminals to meet their maker. Can you imagine if we did not have security companies and armed response units? Our police force can’t even deal with crime as it stands now and they want to disarm law-abiding citizens who have a right to defend themselves.” Mashooda Hoosen said: “Well done. Past few weeks these men have been busy stealing from our yards in the Caneside area.” Daily News