DURBAN - THE newly-appointed spokesperson to former president Jacob Zuma, Mzwanele Manyi, has no regrets about working with the Guptas and maintained there was nothing illegal about entering into a legal commercial deal with them. Manyi, the former Government Communications and Information System spokesperson and former owner of news channel ANN7, spoke exclusively to the Daily News on Wednesday. He said that Zuma was in great need of a communications specialist who would assist with the media and be able to interpret Zuma’s side of the story. “My appointment is transactional and was informed by many things, including the fact that I operate in the communications space. Zuma is aware that often, the media has not been objective in their reports about him.” According to Manyi, it became apparent that Zuma needed a spokesperson when he started receiving various guests at his house and spent hours explaining himself to people wanting to know why he had decided not to appear before Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, who chairs the commission of inquiry into state capture. Asked about his relationship with the Gupta brothers, who allegedly captured the state during Zuma’s administration, Manyi said his relationship with the brothers was above board and there was nothing illegal about it. He denied receiving bags of money and stealing from the government. “If the Guptas are found to have transgressed then they must account like everyone else. I wanted an alternative to voices in the media and I was eager to save jobs as the Guptas were exiting the market. I could not stand and watch more than 500 young journalists lose their jobs, more than anything, I wanted to save their jobs. “Those who ridiculed us and called us names are now seeing why we needed ANN7. They are now asking us to start alternative news channels because they see what is happening in the country.” Manyi said the allegations of gatekeeping – that Dudu Myeni, former chairperson of the Jacob Zuma Foundation, allegedly blocked certain people from accessing Zuma and offering legal advice – were untrue. “It’s incorrect of people to accuse her of gatekeeping. If anything, she was doing her job because Zuma has a big family and other commitments. Zuma is a popular man but at his age he also needs time for himself to rest and of course, enjoy his private space.” On the people who have flocked to Nkandla visiting Zuma, Manyi said many were concerned and decided to visit, some to try to persuade him to change his position and appear before the Zondo Commission. “What those people don’t understand is that Zuma has never denied appearing before the commission. What he has stressed is that Judge Zondo must recuse himself, even if for only when Zuma appeared, because he was conflicted, as Zuma alleged. “A normal broker of a deal would not have trampled on his rights and forced him to subject himself before a process that is clearly biased, but in Zuma’s case, some expected him to suppress his contention and go to the commission. “All he requested was a fair process so that if found to have done anything wrong, then he may account.” Asked whether he would do business with the government or become spokesperson for any government official if approached, Manyi said he was willing to work with anybody, including other political organisations, as long as the motive was to make the country a better place. Daily News