DURBAN - THE family of a woman who was killed with her toddler by her boyfriend, have welcomed the 35-year sentenced handed down to him. Ntombifuthi Blose and her 2-year-old daughter Swelihle were hacked to death in their Mount Royal home in Phoenix in September 2020. Thembinkosi Ngcobo, 62, was sentenced on Friday in the Durban High Court to 20 years imprisonment for Blose’s death, and 15 years imprisonment for killing Swelihle. The sentences will run consecutively. Blose’s brother, Nkosingiphile Blose, welcomed the sentence. “It is good enough to keep him behind bars for a long time. “He did not apologise to the family for what he has done. Ntombifuthi and Swelihle’s death has left a void in our lives. “He will be released when he is very old, if he even survives that long. “He is a danger to society. This sentence would be a deterrent to other people who want to commit a crime such as the brutal manner in which he killed my relatives.” The National Prosecuting Authority’s provincial spokesperson, Natasha Kara, said that in Ngcobo’s plea, he said he was in a relationship with Blose since 2016. At the time, he lived and worked in Pietermaritzburg and she visited him regularly. Their child Swelihle was born in 2017. In 2020, Ngcobo was transferred to work in Durban and lived in Phoenix where Blose continued to visit him. In September 2020, they decided to move in together and she told him that she was going to fetch her clothes from where she had been staying. Kara said Blose later returned saying that her ex-boyfriend had refused to allow her to take her belongings. Ngcobo was surprised by this as he got the impression that she was staying with her ex-boyfriend all along. According to Kara, the following day while Blose was fetching her clothes, Ngcobo had received a phone call saying that Blose was HIV positive. Blose then returned to their home. Ngcobo said he was overwhelmed by anger and reached for a bush knife that was in a bag nearby. He assaulted Blose several times on her body with the bush knife. The child was injured because she was clinging to her mother. Kara said he fled the scene after he heard the neighbours shout that they were calling the police. Ngcobo ran towards the N2 freeway. Kara said Ngcobo contemplated committing suicide but decided to go back to the house where he was arrested. Daily News