“You are never too young to lead and you should never doubt your capacity to triumph where you are.” These are the words of Wenzile Madonsela-Msimanga, the Co-founder of Thuma Foundation which she established together with her mother Thuli Madonsela. Madonsela-Msimang who is also the author of the children’s book, Melos Kingdom, said young people should transcend from criticising the old generation. She said they should begin to formulate a clear vision and take integrated action in pursuit of the Africa they wanted. Madonsela explained that politics had a huge influence on the continent and it was time the youth took part and had a say in shaping the future of Africa. “In strengthening the African Unity agenda – youth leadership in Africa becomes an intense topic and one that should be led. The elections are a key to how tomorrow will look and tomorrow is the young people. Is it not time to give the young people a bigger say in shaping that tomorrow? The coming revolution requires a United Africa.” She said the youth continued to face challenges and that this required the youth to fight for what they want. She added that she was disappointed that there were still students sleeping in libraries due to lack of student accommodation. “I ask myself how the values of the Bill of Rights have been interpreted and legislation enforced. When a child receives their acceptance letter to the university, that joy should not only come with fulfilment but also the security of knowing that the policies protect your human rights by ensuring your basic rights are met.” On holding leaders accountable, she said that the youth had a unique opportunity to take up spaces and be the voices that drive conversations towards social justice and true freedom. “The constitution is the launchpad that catapults opportunities in multiple sectors that are intentionally favourable to the African landscape, creating a new breed of leadership, one that looks at global problems through an African lens. Young people are called to scrutinise the constitution and hold its continent accountable to what has been promised versus reality.” She added that the growth of the youth population meant a great opportunity to increase the consumer demand for new products and services. “This is a sure way of transforming Africa’s economies. The kind of jobs required to absorb this influx of new entrants in the job market will be found in areas that have been traditionally ignored and seen to be roles for ”uneducated people“ so thus hidden or ignored.The public and private sector  must continue to intensify the drive to mentor young people in areas of entrepreneurship as it remained a powerful vehicle for youth empowerment.” 