DURBAN - TWO ANC officials from the AbaQulusi Municipality who stand accused of attempting to bribe a DA councillor appeared briefly in the Vryheid Magistrate’s Court, where the matter was adjourned until July. ANC regional secretary Zackes Buthelezi and chief whip councillor Maria Mabaso are accused of attempting to bribe DA councillor Magda Viktor in 2018. KwaZulu-Natal DA leader and MPL Francois Rodgers MPL attended the court appearance with Viktor and the Zululand South Constituency. “In 2018, councillor Magda Viktor notified the DA provincial leadership of the intended R20 000 bribe to support a vote of no confidence in IFP Speaker Michael Khumalo. The DA subsequently informed the Hawks, who swooped in on the transactions, arresting the ANC councillors involved,” said Rodgers. “Even though the matter has dragged on for more than three years, we are pleased to see it set for prosecution. For justice to be served, the National Prosecuting Authority must get its house in order.” The NPA did not submit statements concerning the case to the defence teams, which led to the case being adjourned until July 7. “This case was once before dropped because of prosecution incompetencies,” said Rodgers. “Simply put, justice delayed is justice denied. In a country currently riddled with corruption under the ANC, it is imperative that public representatives who are found guilty of bribery and corruption be brought to book.” A number of ANC supporters disobeyed the Covid-19 regulations when they reportedly arrived for the case to support the accused. “We were disappointed to see ANC supporters who arrived in numbers outside, despite President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement of banning all political gatherings under adjusted Level 4 of the lockdown,” said Rodgers. “It certainly appears the ANC do not take the pandemic and the president seriously.” The Daily News contacted ANC provincial spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela who was unaware that the matter was still unfolding. “We will allow the court proceedings to unfold so the truthfulness of the matter will be unveiled. “The organisation will act accordingly on the findings. However, the ANC does not condone such acts,” said Ntombela. Daily News