DURBAN - The toddler of a slain Newlands East mother who was discovered dead with her 12-year-old daughter was still asking her father where her mother was nine months after the double murders. According to Smangele Simamane’s husband, Senzo, their 2-year-old daughter, Aphelele, was complaining that she had not seen her mom for some time. “She is always asking me about her mother’s whereabouts. I always tell her that she is at work or that she has gone somewhere far.” Smangele and her daughter Sbongakonke Mthembu’s bodies were found stuffed in a big suitcase that was dumped on Lwandle Drive in KwaDabeka last October. When the bodies were discovered, Simelane had told the media his wife was last seen after she had been called over to their neighbour’s house over a children’s argument, and had not returned. Simamane said things were “never easy” since the murders. Last month, the Pietermaritzburg High Court sentenced Nicholas Sithembiso Lamula, 41, to six years’ imprisonment for his role in the murders. Three more suspects, including a 13-year-old, are expected to appear in court in relation to the murders. Lamula, a Pietermaritzburg taxi owner, had acted on his girlfriend’s wishes when he killed the two women and later dumped them in a suitcase. He had pleaded guilty to two counts of murder and was sentenced after a plea agreement with the State. He had told the court that fear for his life had driven him to become an accomplice to the crime. According to his plea, Lamula said his girlfriend managed to lure Simamane and her daughter to a house in Durban where she blamed them for a close relative’s death. She accused Simamane of witchcraft and proceeded to kill them. Lamula claimed to have received a call from his girlfriend who sought assistance in getting rid of the bodies. He said he dumped them as per his girlfriend’s instructions. He handed himself over to the police on April 7 this year and confessed to his involvement in the crime. On Monday, police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said three suspects aged between 13 and 42 were placed under arrest for the double murder. She said the trio – Slindile Pammela Zamisa, 42, Andile Zamisa, 23, and the 13-year-old, who cannot be named, appeared in court last week and were expected back in the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court this week. Meanwhile, the body of 4-year-old Mlando Zuma was found on Sunday in the sewer of a house in KwaDambuza, where he was last seen on June 18. “Members of the community discovered the decomposed body of a toddler in a septic tank in Entabeni area in Dambuza. An inquest docket was opened at the Plessislaer SAPS for investigation. Today, the community gathered outside the house where the child was found, and set it alight. We are appealing to the community not to take the law into their own hands; acts of vigilantism will not be tolerated in our province. We are still waiting for the post-mortem results that will determine the cause of death,” said Mbele. Daily News