DURBAN - FOUR people were murdered in drive-by shootings in Durban, including the man allegedly behind the theft of part of a war memorial at Durban City Hall. In Wentworth, Brian Captuiex, 55, was shot and killed on Reiger Road on Sunday morning. Captuiex was seated outside his home, after returning from a family funeral. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said that while Captuiex was speaking with friends, a white Toyota Yaris stopped and one of its occupants shot him in the chest. Police claimed it could have been a case of mistaken identity and that Captuiex was perhaps not the intended target. Community activist Desmond D’Sa said Captuiex was a humble person. “He came from a very decent family. This was uncalled for. The police task team should probe the incident,” he said. Resident Zane Chappen said the people of Wentworth needed to take a stand. He wrote on Facebook: “This is wrong on every level, what a good father and friend he was.” On Saturday, Craig Thandroyen, who police described as the alleged mastermind behind the theft of brass war memorial plaques from the Durban City Hall Cenotaph in 2017, was killed. Police reports stated that Craig, his brother Brenden Thandroyen, his daughter Bianca Thandroyen, and son Carel Thandroyen were seated in a VW Polo outside Duncan’s scrap yard, owned by Brenden, in Pickering Street, in the Durban CBD. Mbele said a VW Golf 7, with three men inside, passed the VW Polo, and the occupants of the VW Golf opened fire on the VW Polo. Craig and Brenden died at the scene, while Bianca died in hospital from a gunshot wound to the chest. Carel was shot in his leg. Police are investigating the motive behind the murder. Mbele said three cases of murder and one case of attempted murder were opened by Point police. Craig Thandroyen also allegedly owned minibus taxis. In December 2017, he and seven others were arrested over the theft of copper and metal. Ten brass memorial plaques were stolen from the Cenotaph outside Durban City Hall. The plaques were part of a memorial, commemorating the South African soldiers who died during the World Wars. The names of Durban citizens who fell in the wars were inscribed on the plates. Thandroyen was allegedly found in possession of a 9mm pistol with 15 rounds of ammunition at his business premises on Mathews Meyiwa (Stamford Hill) Road. He appeared in the Durban Magistrate's Court on charges of theft and possession of an illegal firearm and ammunition. The stolen plaques were allegedly cut into pieces. Thandroyen was released on R40 000 bail. Daily News