Durban - POLICE in KwaZulu-Natal have launched a manhunt after a police officer was shot and killed in uMlazi on Tuesday night. According to a national police statement, the 72-hour activation plan has been put in place to mobilise all resources and refocus them to finding the killers. National police spokesperson Colonel Brenda Muridili said they were appealing to anyone with information to immediately contact the police. She said Sergeant  Siyabonga Radebe was playing pool at Cibane tavern when two unknown men entered and fired several shots at him. “The two assailants fled the scene on foot. The officer was rushed to hospital  in a private vehicle but was certified dead on arrival. The province has instituted a 72-hour activation plan to ensure that all the resources needed for the investigation were mobilised,” said Muridili. She said the 34-year-old member was attached to the uMlazi K9 unit. The Daily News visited Radebe’s family in C-section uMlazi but they were not yet ready to address the media about the incident. A witness at the tavern, who declined to be named, said Radebe had visited the tavern earlier in a marked police car and then left. He said a few minutes later, Radebe returned and stood outside the tavern until patrons called him inside to play a game of pool. The man said less than 10 minutes later, two men entered the tavern and one went towards Radebe, grabbed him, removed a bag that had a firearm then started shooting at close range. He said they pulled him towards the tavern exit and shot him several times. “It happened so quickly and while we were still shocked and asking ourselves what was going on, the men had left on foot.” Another source who grew up with Radebe described him as a no-nonsense police officer who hated crime in his neighbourhood. He said the officer did not care whether you were his neighbour or not, if you committed a crime, he would deal with you himself. “I strongly believed his life was in danger and was being sought by local criminals who viewed him as a threat. It's so unfortunate that he would relax and play snooker with locals in a tavern. I think he took advantage of the fact that he grew up there and the tavern was a few metres away from his home,” said the man. Radebe’s murder follows that of Ndwedwe acting station commissioner Jabulani Ndawonde who was killed last month. Radebe is the 12th officer to be killed in the province since March last year according to figures released by Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Peggy Nkonyeni. Daily News