DURBAN - POLICE are still trying to establish the motive behind a drive-by shooting where Durban businessman Mohammed Moola was shot and wounded in Clare Estate on Tuesday. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said Moola was seated in his car at the entrance to the Spencer Road mosque when he was shot by an unknown person in another vehicle. Gwala said he was shot in the leg and taken to hospital. A case of attempted murder is being investigated by Sydenham SAPS. A source at the scene said Moola told police that he was waiting for a maulana (Muslim religious scholar) outside the mosque when he was shot. Police believe a shotgun might have been used in the shooting. A Spencer Road resident, who wished to remain anonymous, said they heard loud bangs and after a few minutes police sirens. “Many cars drive fast on this stretch of road. Some have modified exhausts that give off bangs. Some contractors working on the roadside rushed to the man’s aid,” the resident said. Moola’s family could not be reached for comment. Meanwhile, SAPS political task team detectives are searching for three men wanted for the murder and kidnapping of Mthoko Ndimande, 22, and Sandile Ndimande, 29. Police are offering a R10 000 reward to anyone who might have information that would lead to the arrest and conviction of the wanted suspects. Both were kidnapped from their home in the Mkhizwana area, under the Msunduzi policing precinct. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said their bodies were found the following day with gunshot wounds in Mngcweni. Charges of murder were opened at Msunduzi SAPS. Two suspects aged 31 and 37 were arrested last month on charges of murder. They appeared in the Camperdown Magistrate’s Court and were remanded in custody. The matter was adjourned until July 12. Police are searching for Cebo Gwala, 27, Zisholo Shozi, 36, and Khona Buthelezi, 38. A warrant for their arrest was issued by the court. Anyone with information can contact the investigating officer Sergeant Sithole on 072 062 1797. Crime Stop can be contacted on 08600 10111. Daily News