DURBAN - THREE years after being forced to drink two litres of human faeces and thrown into a sewer hole by his former boss, his wife and their son, Gauteng resident Joseph Mona’s health is deteriorating and he cannot afford to buy the adult nappies he needs. The emotionally overwhelmed 40-year-old Mona told the Daily News that he suffered from faecal incontinence. He said his life was changed drastically by the incident. He has found himself unemployed, unable to buy groceries – all while awaiting his R250000 in compensation which had not been paid as ordered by the court. Mona recalled how he was stripped of his dignity and humiliated. He said his health took a knock after the torture. His stomach was constantly in pain because he was forced twice to drink human faeces. “I have seen all sorts of abuse but what they did to me is unheard of. I am hiding from the world because I was treated like an unworthy animal; what have I done to deserve this?” He lives in an informal settlement with his unemployed mother whom he said abuses alcohol. “I don’t blame her. It can’t be easy for anyone to look after a useless 40-year-old who has no money, no job and constantly needs his mother to buy him Pampers.” Mona said he prayed for a life line while navigating through this difficult time awaiting his pending case to be concluded. His lawyer, Jay Mzila, said the compensation had not yet been paid as a result of the pending appeal by the Leicester family. “We are awaiting the court date for the appeal. We will communicate as soon as we have the information,” said Mzila. Harry Leicester, his wife Maria and son Chris tortured Mona after he failed to switch on the engine of a septic tank pump machine. Chris tightly held Mona’s hands behind his back and dragged him towards the sewer hole. His father Harry took a big jug, dipped it in the sewer hole and forced him to drink it. Mona was then thrown into the sewer hole but managed to crawl out 30 minutes later after he grabbed and held on to a loose piece of rope. Covered in filth, he went to his room in the workers’ quarters, where he washed and even drank cooking oil to loosen his bowels. He was only allowed to leave the next evening after being locked in the yard by his abusers. In March this year, the Springs Regional Court on the East Rand sentenced his former employers to 10 years’ imprisonment for attempted murder and two years for crimen injuria. Daily News