KWAZULU-NATAL police officers are to hold their  annual Police Sports Day on Wednesday, with the theme, Sports Against Crime, at King Zwelithini Sports Ground in uMlazi. Social Crime Prevention Co-ordinator Captain Nkululeko Kweyama from uMlazi SAPS said the day was vital for officers at it strengthened their minds and kept them physically healthy. “Members are stressed because of the workload and the shortage of manpower. This in turn affects service delivery. But, being active in sports accelerates service delivery,” Kweyama said. He said exercise was also necessary for team-building, and sports allowed officers to display their talent. “It eliminates tensions between different units, and improves co-operation between units, which results in accelerated service delivery,” Kweyama said. He said through sports, officers were able to build better working relationships with their colleagues. The participating police stations are Umlazi SAPS, Bhekithemba SAPS (Umlazi BB), Isipingo SAPS, Amanzimtoti SAPS, KwaMakhutha SAPS, Folweni SAPS, Umbumbulu SAPS, Umkomaas SAPS and Reunion Railway SAPS, and they will be joined by the Child Protection Unit and Durban metro police. “This is also a networking opportunity for officers, to share knowledge and trends including new and improved methods that can be used in the fight against crime as well as for solving complex cases.” He said the officers would be participating in netball, soccer, a 100-metre relay event,  tug of war, a sack race, aerobics as well as an egg and spoon race. “We are supporting the well-being of SAPS members. It is easier to fight crime when you participate in sports,” Kweyama said. He added that officers would also be physically assessed, to see if they met the necessary health requirements. “Police officers will be screened for health and wellness.” He said they had invited community policing forums and other stakeholders to be part of the sports day. “All regulations pertaining to Covid-19 will be observed,” Kweyama said. The event, he said, began in 2015, and took place annually. “It was very unfortunate that in 2020 we could not hold this important event, because of the Covid-19 lockdown regulations which were laid down by President Cyril Ramaphosa.” He said previously, only a single trophy and a few medals were awarded. “In  2018, Amanzimtoti SAPS became soccer champions and took the trophy home. In 2019, uMlazi SAPS were crowned soccer champions, while the finalists received medals.” This year, they had trophies for all sporting codes, and medals for all runner-ups. Daily News