DURBAN - THE EFF will march to the country’s capital city on Friday to demand the SA Health Products Regulatory Authority (Sahpra) include Russian Sputnik V and Chinese Sinovac vaccines for use. The party accused Sahpra of disallowing the usage of Sputnik V and Sinovac vaccines, and alleged this was because it was micromanaged and controlled by Western countries’ pharmaceutical companies which work with local collaborators to prevent the authorisation of vaccines from China and Russia. “We demand that Sahpra finalise the approval and authorisation of Sputnik V and Sinovac within seven days, and the South African Government must make these vaccines available for all the people. If Sahpra fails to approve the usage of vaccines that have been scientifically approved and authorised in many parts of the world, we will be left with no option but to engage in militant mass action against this captured regulatory authority. Our lawyers will explore the possibility of approaching the Constitutional Court on an urgent basis to force Sahpra and the South African Government to allow the usage of scientifically tested and proven vaccines, including Sputnik-V and Sinovac in South Africa,” it said. The EFF vowed to demand the removal of Helen Rees as chairperson of the Sahpra board because she was allegedly conflicted and stood to benefit from the refusal to authorise Sputnik V and Sinovac in the country. The EFF said Rees is married to Fazel Randera, who is a shareholder in Aspen, a local partner of Johnson & Johnson. The red berets said the party’s secretary-general Marshall Dlamini had begun extending invitations to religious groups, civil society, owners of small and medium enterprises, workers in the creative industry, and unions – to join the protest and flock to the capital city. EFF communications manager Sixo Gcilishe reiterated the call by the party’s president Julius Malema that if Sahpra failed to meet its demands, a massive protest would be held at the house of Sahpra board chairperson Rees until all demands were met. “We’re not sure how many people will join the march, but it’s going to be a success,” said Gcilishe. Meanwhile, the DA has accused President Cyril Ramaphosa and his government of violating people’s constitutional rights to have access to healthcare services. With new infections rising fast, the country had to ensure it redoubled efforts to vaccinate as many people as possible. Poorly functioning and overly controlling bureaucratic systems must not stand in the way of saving lives. “We are at a crucial time where the government is expected to acquire and roll out an effective vaccine. The process until now has been marred with challenges. Through an ad hoc committee Parliament will be able to summon the executive, issue deadlines, perform oversight, hold them to deadlines and ensure tasks are executed efficiently,” said Siviwe Gwarube. According to reports, South Africa’s lack of financial incentives for investment in vaccine production was allegedly undermined by the government’s tender system – one of the reasons the country has been unable to produce its (own) vaccines. Among other reasons was lack of technology to produce some vaccines and foreign manufacturers’ willingness to do a “technology transfer” as part of licensing their product for local production. Daily News