DURBAN - A KWAZULU-NATAL family is devastated after the alleged rape and murder of their teenage daughter on Sunday. Sbahle Luyanda Ndlela, 14, a Grade 9 pupil at Sibuko High School, was allegedly strangled in Mpumalanga township, Hammarsdale, outside Durban. Sbahle’s mother, Smangele Ndlovu, 31, claimed the suspect, whom she broke up with three years ago, had a history of being abusive. “I am heartbroken and in deep pain. My children and I are traumatised. I want justice for my daughter,” Ndlovu said. Ndlovu had gone to her neighbour’s house with her friends. Her ex-boyfriend allegedly broke through the window of Ndlovu’s home and committed the crime. “I am aware that he was looking for me. I have a protection order against him, obtained in 2018. I have three cases against him, of assault with an intention to cause grievous bodily harm. I have scars on my face and body because of him,” Ndlovu said. “I have opened many cases against him.” She has a five-year-old son with her ex-boyfriend. She claimed that in December 2017, he had burnt down their house. “When police came to arrest him, he admitted to burning down the house. I had to change locations because of his abusive behaviour.” When she returned, her brother came to stay with her and the abuse stopped. “When my brother moved to another city, the abuse continued. In March this year, he broke all the windows in our house and I reported the matter to the police.” Ndlovu said she would truly miss her daughter. “She was so dear to me, it breaks my heart to know that I will never see her again. Her laughter, the dance – she was such a beautiful soul.” Sbahle enjoyed maths, English, history and isiZulu, and wanted to become a doctor. “She loved to help the injured. In addition to being a good dancer, she was a good singer.” Ndlovu’s three children, aged five, 8 and 11, were in the house at the time of the incident and are undergoing trauma counselling. A relative, who did not want to be named for safety reasons, said there were signs which indicated that Sbahle may have been raped, but they were still awaiting test results and confirmation from police. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele confirmed the incident. “A 14-year-old female was allegedly strangled by a known suspect. She was taken to hospital, where she died on arrival,” Mbele said. She added that a 38-year-old suspect was arrested by Mpumalanga police for murder and would appear in court soon. She added they are awaiting the post mortem report and that a 38-year-old suspect was arrested by Mpumalanga police for murder and would appear in court soon. Mbele did not comment on the protection orders. Daily News