DURBAN - POLICE ignored Covid-19 protocols at their colleague’s funeral in uMlazi on Sunday. About 500 people, including SAPS and Metro police officers, attended the funeral of K9 unit officer Sergeant Siyabonga Radebe at the local school grounds, instead of the regulated 50 mourners. The latest restrictions announced recently by President Cyril Ramaphosa state that public gatherings and funerals are limited to 50 people. In terms of the Disaster Management Act, police are supposed to enforce Covid-19 regulations and arrest those who do not comply. However, on Sunday police ignored violations and the basic rules of social distancing and the wearing of masks. They also allowed people to consume alcohol freely during proceedings. Ramaphosa had banned off-site alcohol consumption. Public drinking is also a crime in the country. When pall-bearers prepared to take the coffin to the hearse, a group of visibly drunk youth, who were not wearing masks, arrived inside the marquee singing Struggle songs and whistling. All this occurred despite the announcement that Ramaphosa would address the nation last night on possible new restrictions. The government has long identified gatherings such as funerals as super-spreader events. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said nothing had been reported to the police. Radebe was shot and killed two weeks ago while playing pool with friends at the local tavern next to his home in C-section in uMlazi. His colleague, Sergeant Thamsanqa Mdluli, described him as a dedicated officer who was vocal if there was something he did not like at work. He said they were still in pain after losing their colleague and would miss him. Radebe’s brother, Bulelani Radebe, who was with him when he was shot, told the Daily News that it was painful to see his brother being killed in front of him while he could not do anything to help him. “While we were playing a game of pool, two men entered. One of them had the gun already in his hand and started shooting. They shouted at us not to look at them and fired several shots in the air while running to their getaway car.” Police have arrested three suspects, including a woman who is in the taxi industry. Radebe confirmed rumours that his brother had raided a female suspect’s home with his colleagues and confiscated alcohol she was allegedly selling without a licence during lockdown level 5. He also said his brother once found the suspect with an allegedly stolen van and impounded it. He said the family believed he was killed for doing his job. The suspect allegedly masterminded the murder and hired hitmen. Two other suspects were arrested with her last week. One person was shot and killed by police during the raid and the other two were arrested. One of them has apparently confessed to the police and could become a State witness. They all appeared in the uMlazi Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday and are expected to lodge a formal bail application on Monday. Hawks national spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Philani Nkwalase said the State would oppose bail. Radebe was the 12th police officer killed in the province in the 2020/21 financial year, statistics released by Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Peggy Nkonyeni showed. Daily News