DURBAN - Limited time for planning, organising and training made it inevitable that policing South Africa’s Covid-19 lockdown would pose challenges for law enforcement. Dr Johan Burger, of the Institute for Security Studies (ISS) made the remark after the SA Military Ombud Office reported that 56 complaints were lodged by members of the public regarding the conduct of South African National Defence Force (SANDF) soldiers during the Covid-19 lockdown. “The rapid escalation of government efforts to counter the spread of Covid-19 simply didn’t allow for proper planning and preparation. The Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (JOINTS) – responsible for planning and co-ordinating all joint security force operations – has significant experience in major sporting events, elections and crime combating operations. But for these, they had many months to plan and prepare. Something that was not possible as the pandemic swept the world. The Covid19 security force response should have been monitored and evaluated by an independent body that reports to the National Coronavirus Command Council,” said Burger. Ombud Lieutenant General (Ret) Vusumuzi Masondo informed the Portfolio Committee on Defence and Military Veterans last week, that the complaints range from allegations of assault, damage to property, use of excessive force and general heavy-handedness by soldiers when enforcing the lockdown regulations. The ombud has finalised 70% of the cases received from the public against soldiers on duty during the 2020/21 financial year. He said among the cases dealt with by the office was a complaint by a tavern owner who alleged that on a particular afternoon, members of the South African Police Service (SAPS) and the SANDF visited his premises, stole and drank his alcohol, threw empty cans at him and assaulted him. “The soldiers allegedly stole cash amounting to R25 000 from a cash register and alcohol worth thousands of rands which they loaded in their vehicles. He was unable to get the names of the soldiers, however, the incident was captured on video, and the identity of the soldiers were confirmed from the video footage. The investigation is finalised,” Masondo said. The SANDF members were deployed to enforce Covid-19 lockdown regulations. Masondo said this was the highest number of complaints received in a single year since the establishment of the military ombud’s office in 2012. Masondo said that among the challenges encountered by his office during the investigations were travel restrictions and social distancing protocols. “The public must provide all the necessary details to assist with the investigations,” Masondo said. Those who lodge complaints should try to get the name of the soldier concerned from their name badge, car registration and provide a recording of the incident, if available, to assist with the investigations. Many videos were taken and uploaded to social media sites with the words “Skop 'n donner' which loosely means to kick and hit someone. Daily News