DURBAN - YOUNG Durban fashion designers and film-makers showcased some of their work during the Inaugural Youth and Fashion and Film Street Expo at uShaka Marine World at the weekend. The expo, hosted by the Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, showcased some of the work of young film producers from the KwaZulu-Natal Film Commission. These youngsters were beneficiaries of various department interventions together with its entities. “It was a great opportunity to showcase some of my work. I am highly motivated to continue working on my dreams since the government has shown support. Sharing the stage with our role models gave us hope. I hope to one day be part of the fashion team on Generations. I urge the youth to not be discouraged as there is help from the government,” said Paul Sibisi, founder of Paul Kotini House. Six films by young producers and a total of 10 garments by five young designers were on show. “This occasion gives us a chance to celebrate and highlight the importance of the creative industry which continues to play a very critical role in our economic development and social cohesion efforts. “We are also presented with a chance to reflect on the recovery of the creative industry which was no doubt among the hardest hit by the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Ravi Pillay, Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs MEC. He said the government had formulated a multipronged response for the Covid-19 crisis of four pillars: a health response, relief or support to the vulnerable, enforcement of regulations and economic recovery. Economic recovery interventions by the department, in the creative industries, included the Emerging Designer Retail Programme, E-Commerce trading tool, KZN Youth Film Production and Kwande Fest. “On Thursday we will commence with the implementation of the Emerging Designer Retail Programme. This is a developmental pilot public/ private sector partnership between EDTEA and Mr Price Group’s apparel division. The purpose of the project is to develop emerging fashion design entrepreneurs.” The KZN Marketplace Trading Portal Platform was part of the e-commerce trading platform that will be launched towards the end of the year. The KZN Youth Film Production programme offered training and industry experience through a variety of production projects. The Kwande Fest was launched in March with the hope of encouraging the youth to share knowledge as well as collaborative skills building. The expo, hosted by the Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, showcased some of the work of young film producers from the KwaZulu-Natal Film Commission. Daily News