DURBAN - THE uMhlathuze Municipality is expected to table its budget per ward and would make known all its projects and their timelines for each ward in the city. This was revealed by mayor Mduduzi Mhlongo after discussions with traditional leaders which aimed to put an end to violent protests that were disrupting service delivery in the town. “We have resolved that transparency would be key to resolving conflicts in the area, going forward. We have people who are restless. We are saying while they are waiting, it would be better if they have a clear understanding of what would come their way,” Mhlongo said. He added that violent protests in the area were not helping anyone, but were instead a stumbling block to the city’s development and areas governed by traditional leaders. “The protests disrupt service delivery to communities, which comes with employment opportunities and business opportunities to small and medium enterprises, as well as the necessary skills transfer.” The violent protests, he said, were chasing away investors in the area. “People are anxious, they don’t want to be left out of the available opportunities, thus they resort to violent and disruptive behaviour.” Mhlongo acknowledged that the unemployment rate was high and also that many people were not doing anything with their hands. “The era of closing sites, carrying guns, must come to an end. “Whenever there’s a disagreement we will all come to the table and resolve the matters.” Earlier a local tribal court was torched by angry residents during a protest. “There is an eruption of violent protests that damage the infrastructure. There is also the emergence of forums, representing business and the unemployed,” Mhlongo said. Provincial police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele confirmed the incident. “A case of arson was opened at Empangeni police station for investigation after a tribal court was set alight by an unknown suspect.” She said the matter was still under investigation. King Somopho Mthembu of Somopho Reserve, an area under uMhlathuze Municipality, said they needed clarity concerning the violent protests. “We want to know where we stand in terms of protests. There must be clear guidelines, as to what is permitted and not. Right now we are experiencing the destruction of infrastructure in communities.” Mthembu added that during a protest that was directed at a coal mine in the area, protesters ended up burning his court. “We want all our wards to have their share in all the projects. Local labour and local SME distribution of 30% should be stated clearly, to avoid unrest in the area.” Mhlongo said traditional leaders were concerned that organisers and instigators were not brought to book. He said the next meeting would include the SAPS and the forums. Daily News