SINEHLANHLA ZUNGU DURBAN - The effects of the coronavirus has left the Department of Social Development in the province with the burden of caring for orphans and the unemployed. This was according to Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza who was speaking at the Pietermaritzburg City Hall where she was commemorating Social Workers Day along with Minister Lindiwe Zulu on Tuesday. She said the outbreak had caused turmoil in communities leading to thousands of dead parents, and placing a huge burden on the department. “We now have more responsibility to ensure that all those children who became orphans as a result of the coronavirus, also receive assistance,” said Khoza. She applauded social workers, referring to their noble profession as a “calling”. “To be a social worker is not an easy journey, but social workers continue to do their jobs with great pride, regardless of challenges they encounter. We know your significant contribution towards the culture and moral advancement of humankind,” Khoza said. She said that the event was aimed at showing gratitude for the significant role that social workers play in uplifting South African communities. “Social workers are also recognised for their invaluable contribution in delivering psycho-social services to those in need,” she said. Minister Zulu said while there was 1 633 grade 1 to 4 social workers in the province, and 773 with Non-Profit Organisations in KZN, there was 1 213 unemployed social workers who were either funded by the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) or self-funded in their studies. “The department would have loved to be able to hire all the unemployed social workers, but the budget seems to be a dominant hurdle in doing so,” said Zulu. She explained that there was a further 1 104 unemployed social workers who were funded by the department. Zulu said 144 social workers were funded by the department on contract while 151, also on contract, were either self-funded or funded by NSFAS. She said her department acknowledged the challenge of occupation- specific dispensation faced by social workers. “Your outcry on salary grading of social workers that did not follow a transparent and a unified approach, are some of the challenges that you often raise,” she said. sinenhlanhla.zungu@inl.co.za Daily News