Durban - The African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) in the Vhembe region has come out guns blazing calling for charges against Limpopo ANC Treasurer, Danny Msiza, to be dropped. The ’young lions’ contend that the charges are politically motivated. The National Prosecuting Authority formally indicted Msiza and 13 others accused of looting the VBS Mutual Bank and is expected to serve them with a fresh indictment this week. Msiza was implicated in the VBS scandal after he allegedly used his political influence to unlawfully convince several Limpopo mayors and municipal officials to invest millions of rands in the now collapsed VBS Mutual Bank. At the time, Msiza denied any transgression, arguing that he could not be held responsible because his actions were motivated by ‘meaningful transformation within the financial services sector’. In a statement released on Thursday by the ‘young lions’ of Vhembe Region, the coordinator, Fistos Malefa, said that politically inspired persecution of Msiza must be ‘rejected and condemned’. Malefa added that the Gauteng High Court had previously set aside and declared that the case against Msiza was baseless. “We call upon the politically motivated charges against the Provincial Treasurer to be rejected and condemned. This politically inspired persecution against Cde Msiza must be rejected with the contempt it deserves”. “The indictment comes a mere five months after the Gauteng North High Court set aside, expunged, and declared as unconstitutional the baseless allegations contained in the advocate Terry Motau Report. This unprecedented High Court judgment followed the review application lodged by Cde Msiza, and therefore, reasserted the supremacy of our Constitution's and the Bill of Rights,” said Malefa. Malefa accused the NPA of trying to destroy  Msiza’s political career. He said Msiza had been subjected to bias, abuse, prejudice and harm at the hands of some politicians and the media which is pushing propaganda against Msiza. ”The media and political detractors ramped up propaganda against Cde Msiza. He has suffered endless abuse, prejudice, and personality harm as a result of this overt political persecution”. ”The ANCYL Vhembe Region believes that Msiza is a disciplined and exemplary leader who has demonstrated great leadership in the midst of endless attacks. The region is also confident that Msiza will be proven innocent by the courts. Malefa added that Msiza is on record calling for those implicated in the VBS saga to be held accountable. “We want to commend Cde Msiza for the utmost discipline and exemplary manner he has conducted himself. We are very confident that our courts will throw out the current baseless, politically motivated. Cde Msiza is on record condemning and fighting against corruption. Cde Msiza is on record condemning any wrongdoing in the VBS saga, and calling on those involved in wrongdoing to be brought to book,” said Malefa. thabo.makwakwa@inl.co.za Daily News