Durban - MAYOR Mxolisi Kaunda has instructed eThekwini Municipality officials to fast track preparations for a social cohesion summit in the metro following recent incidents where foreign street traders in the CBD were attacked. Mayoral spokesperson Mluleki Mntungwa said the city’s activities to promote social cohesion were still ongoing. “We condemn these acts of criminality that took place. The mayor convened a meeting with law enforcement agencies a week ago to deal with issues. People are constantly being attacked in their place of business in the CBD as well as the invasion of construction sites, a task team was set up by law enforcement agencies to deal decisively with these criminal elements,” said Mntungwa. The attacks on Monday where three trading stalls owned by foreign vendors on the corner of Victoria and Albert streets were set alight, were allegedly carried out by a group of young men claiming to be from the Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKVMA). However the organisation has distanced itself from these attacks. Mntungwa said the city was counting on police as they were investigating to identify the perpetrators. “This is why we are calling on those whose businesses were affected or damaged to report to police and open cases. The mayor has said the city belongs to all who live in it. We view these actions as criminality,” he said. Mntungwa said the social cohesion summit which the mayor has instructed officials to fast track would deal with underlying issues. “We wouldn’t want to classify these as xenophobic attacks, these are pure criminal actions as we have seen other incidents where construction sites are invaded by groups of people to extort money. These are general incidents of corruption that we have to deal with decisively.” Police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker said: “The matter is still under investigation. The situation is quiet today, police are maintaining a high visibility while ensuring that law enforcement is taking place.” Metro Police spokesperson Superintendent Zama Dlamini said there were no reports of any new attacks on Tuesday. “Our police officers are standing down at the Diakonia building where it has been alleged that foreign women jumped the fence last night (Monday) and slept there, since they did not get help and their stands were taken yesterday (Monday).” The Premier’s office was asked to comment on the matter, but the Daily News was referred to the Department of Community Safety and Liaison. In a statement the department said following Monday’s attacks it had engaged Acting Provincial Police Commissioner General Thulani Gonya to augment the number of officers patrolling in the CBD. “The department is also fast-tracking the revival of the social cohesion dialogue working closely with SAPS and the Department of Arts and Culture, who are the custodian of the social cohesion programme. The department is working closely with law enforcement to ensure that law and order is maintained in the eThekwini CBD, we are also committed to ensuring that stability, peace and peaceful co-existence is maintained at all times.” During the violent attacks on Monday some of the victims sought refuge at the Diakonia Centre where the NPO Refugee Social Services was a tenant. Ian Booth, co-ordinator for the Diakonia Council of Churches, said some foreign nationals spent Monday night at their centre. “The crowd has been dispersed by SAPS Public Order policing. Their leaders are meeting with other foreign national  group leaders later this afternoon and the group is seeking a meeting with the mayor to try to find a workable solution to the ongoing violence they are experiencing.” anelisa.kubheka@inl.co.za Daily News