Durban - CONDOLENCES poured in for a nurse based at RK Khan Hospital who was murdered during a home invasion in Pinetown on Monday. Muriel Armugam, 52, was stabbed in her neck and died in her home. Her husband Dennis was tied up, assaulted and stabbed on the right thigh. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said the circumstances surrounding the incident was being investigated. Gwala said the robbers entered the house on Mariannhill Road and held up the couple. Their only daughter was in school at the time. Muriel’s sister Shanice Breytenbach said the family had no words to describe the pain and loss they were going through. Local pastor Collin Govender said he was pained that Armugam’s had been brutally snatched away. “She was a true humanitarian. She loved to serve the elderly. Her love for the job at RK Khan paediatrics made her aspire to study further. I pray that justice will be served,” Govender said. Her friend Anitha Gounden said it was a senseless killing “She loved others unconditionally and gave whole heartedly. Taken away too soon. I will always treasure our memories together. Her zest for life, laughter and music will remain with us forever,” said Gounden. Colleague Charlene Nortje said Armugam’s larger than life personality will be sorely missed in the RK Khan hospital nursery. “It will be difficult to forget your loud, infectious laugh and you singing at the top of your lungs while we were working,” Nortje said. Simon-Debbie Iyer said she was the epitome of humility and grace always ready to help and make a plan. She said her many years as nursing sister was a testament to her selfless nature. RK Khan action committee member Visvin Reddy said the staff were in shock. He called for swift police action to get to the bottom of the killing. Reddy wanted the perpetrators brought to book. “She was well liked and dedicated to her job as a staff nurse. I am concerned that at a time such as this when many of our critical care workers are dying from Covid-19, we cannot lose yet another,” said Reddy. Charges of house robbery and murder are being investigated by Pinetown SAPS. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News