Durban - THE University of KwaZulu Natal’s Centre for the Creative Arts (CCA) has condemned the looting of public funds aimed at supporting artists, saying it has made their plight even worse. Opening the 24th edition of the Time of the Writer International Festival on Monday, aired virtually for the second time, CCA director Ismail Mahomed said: “We condemn officials entrusted with public funds to administer support for artists who maladministered those funds and invoked a climate in which artists continue to suffer more than before Covid-19 hit us. “We also announce commitment to and solidarity with the artists whose voices continue to protest against corruption, maladministration, gender-based violence, crime and all the other scourges that plague our society.” This year’s festival, under the theme “The writer: witness, canary in the mine or testifier?”, has drawn writers, social commentators and poets from all over Africa and will feature a daily “Brunch Hour“ focused on teaching isiZulu. The festival’s co-curator, Siphindile Hlongwa, said: “This second virtual edition offers more than 30 sessions and over 100 participants. Through our championing spirit, one year ago we became the first South African festival to venture on an online platform.” During the opening, local arts and education activist Ntokozo Ndlovu was named recipient of the festival’s inaugural Literature Champion of the Year Award for his work with the SiyafunaDonate-A-Book project. Hlongwa said this was part of the festival’s drive to “recognise South African champions doing sterling work to broaden access to literature”. “While children in urban areas can easily access literature on the internet, many children in rural schools still depend on printed books donated by Ntokozo’s Siyafunda Donate-a-Book project as their only source for literature,” said Hlongwa. Ndlovu, a decorated military sergeant, said he attributed his championing spirit to his mother, who was an isiZulu language teacher and introduced him to literature at a young age. “In 2007, my passion for literature was reignited and rejuvenated when an SANDF officer, Mr Given Shange, introduced me to different authors,” he said. “In 2009, after reading the thought-provoking Capitalist Nigger by Chika Onyeani, I decided to start my organisation, The Web Foundation. “South Africa’s prosperity depends on how we equip generations of young people to access and process information. Giving young children access to books gives them entry into a world of imagination and possibilities which they must strive to realise,” said Hlongwa. “By recognising Ndlovu as the inaugural Literature Champion, we hope that our audiences and festival supporters will assist him in growing the work that he is passionate about.” silindile.nyathikazi@inl.co.za Daily News