Durban - The passing of the beloved His Majesty the King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu, sent waves of shock throughout South Africa. President of Black Business Council and  AmaZulu FC boss, Sandile Zungu, told Daily News that he and the entire Business Community are saddened to hear of the passing of the Zulu King. Zungu said that his team and all players were shocked. According to Zungu, the King was the first person who gave him blessings when he decided to buy AmaZulu FC. Zungu said that he had approached the King and told him of his plans to buy the club and the King gave him his blessings and wished him success. "I am deeply saddened and feel defeated on the passing of our King. His Majesty the King was a humble leader who will be remembered for his humility.  All our colleagues at Amazulu are mourning for his passing," said Zungu. He stated that he would pay homage to King and lead a delegation of his team alongside Benni McCarthy, and visit the Monarch, to offer their condolences to the family and the Zulu Nation. "Benni McCarthy and I, will lead our team to the palace where we will send our condolences to the Royal house and to the people of the province", said Zungu. Billionaire businessman Vivian Reddy, expressed sadness at the passing of his long time friend, his Majesty the King of the Zulu nation. He also said that the King left a legacy of care and love for his subjects. "The sad devastating news of the passing on of His Majesty, brought a flood of warm memories of our close friendship spanning over 30 years. We met just a few weeks ago and he shared exciting plans for the celebration of the 50th Anniversary of his Inauguration which was being planned for December this year,” said Reddy. “His Majesty leaves a legacy of care and love for his subjects. He worked tirelessly fighting against the scourge of the HIV pandemic. He deeply cared about the values and traditions of the Zulu Nation.” Reddy said perhaps his greatest attribute was his commitment to social cohesion efforts and pronouncements in this region. He actively became involved in resolving conflicts and in many cases his interventions prevented serious consequences and possible upheavals. “I have been fortunate to have accompanied His Majesty on trips abroad as he tirelessly encouraged investments into our Province as he wanted to create jobs for the people of KwaZulu-Natal,” said Reddy. “We have lost a King of Kings May God bless his kind soul.” The National Lotteries Commission said in a statement that was in great disbelief and sadness after the news on the passing of the King broke. The commission extended its heartfelt sympathies and condolences to the people at the Royal house. "His Majesty played a leading role in the fight against the HIV/Aids pandemic by  urging his subjects to take on circumcision as one of the preventive measures. His sudden death has indeed caught all of us who worked closely with him by surprise and has sent shockwaves in the NLC family and the nation at large. South Africa owes him a debt of gratitude for the selfless service to his people and for the passion he demonstrated for community development and  unity of this nation". King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu was born July 27, 1948 and died March 12, 2021. At the time of his death, the King had six wives and 28 children. The nation continues to mourn the death of its King. Daily News