Durban - THE ANC leadership in KwaZulu-Natal this week met with Human Settlements, Water and Sanitation Minister Lindiwe Sisulu where among the issues discussed was challenges facing the party. The meeting was apparently at the request of the ANC provincial secretary Mdumiseni Ntuli. A source said the meeting was attended by key members of the ANC. Several leaders from various regions are still expected to have tea with Sisulu and ask for a ‘signal’. Describing the outcome of the meeting, a source said Ntuli discussed his frustration about challenges facing the movement and that the ANC failed to decisively tackle patriarchy, therefore he was concerned that as a result, the party may lose leaders of substance. “The secretary flagged his concern that the ANC might lose leaders with clarity due to patriarchy. “Of crucial importance, was how the ANC repositions itself in the upcoming local government elections.” Sisulu’s advisor Mphumzi Mdekazi confirmed that the minister met with Ntuli and many other regional leaders of the ANC who sought for Sisulu’s advice on many issues affecting the province, particularly the lives of the people. Mdekeza said pressing issues relating to water security and bulk infrastructure were also discussed. He said the meeting touched on former president Jacob Zuma’s defiance to appear before the Zondo commission. The Consitutional Court ruled for Zuma to appear before the commission, however Zuma has not done so. Mdekeza said that everyone agreed with the pronouncement of the ANC’s top six who had met with Zuma. It has been reported that the ANC resolved that Zuma would decide whether he appears before the commission after consulting with his lawyers. “The minister is a senior NEC member of the ANC, she has dedicated her life to the ANC and strives to unite it by all means necessary. “Whenever requested, she is also accessible to provide leadership. “It is true that many issues have been discussed, unfortunately some issues cannot be disclosed to the media as they remain internal issues of the party,” said Mdekeza. Sisulu said she was an ANC deploy to the province and her job as minister also required that she attend to water problems in the country. “There has never been a concern when I go to other areas but, my visit to Kwazulu-Natal is being questioned. “Last month, there was a problem in Pietermaritzburg and I went there to resolve the existing issues. I don’t understand why people raise questions when I am in KZN doing my job.” Sisulu’s confidant Professor Ndawonde said he helped facilitate meetings between the minister and ordinary people with the aim to address water problems facing many communities in the province. Ndawonde said as a citizen, he had a responsibility to ensure that people’s lives were improved and service delivery should not be compromised. A source, who did not want to be named, said he had met Sisulu. He alleged that many regional leaders representing more than five regions in Kwazulu-Natal were throwing their support behind Sisulu as they see her as a credible leader to unite the ANC and take it forward. He added that it was time for women with outstanding leadership records to assist rid the ANC of corruption and factionalism. “Sisulu represents the quality of leadership we need in the ANC. “She is experienced and has proven to be one of the best female leaders in our movement. “Most importantly, she is not controlled by external forces that have infiltrated the ANC. “We believe in her capabilities to assist and revive this deeply divided movement. “She must cleanse and save the ANC”, said the source. Ntuli did not respond to questions from the Daily News at the time of publication. thabo.makwakwa@inl.co.za Daily News