Durban - A SUPPLY chain management process is under way in the eThekwini Municipality to appoint a contractor to complete the roadworks on Kenville Road, Durban North. The road has been closed for three years. Ward councillor Bobby Maharajh said the project to upgrade Inanda Road resulted in the lower part of Kenville Road being closed. The closure has affected residents who in the past travelled 400 metres to get to Inanda Road and then to North Coast Road. The diverted route is much longer. eThekwini Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said the City closed Kenville Road in 2018 and had envisaged reopening it a year later. Mayisela said there were a number of unforeseen technical challenges that had emerged during construction. Kenville/Sea Cow Lake Ratepayers' and Residents' Association spokesperson Anil Beekrum said the closure of the road had a tremendous impact on residents and businesses. Beekrum said the Umgeni Heights Flats situated near the construction site has been affected by the closure. He said approximately 14 of its tenants have moved out for the reason of inconvenience. Habibia Soofie Saheb Badsha Peer Mosque Kenville spokesperson Mohammed Farouk said they needed the road reopened for many reasons. At the mosque, they have a social welfare centre, school, orphanage, Islamic classes and a soup kitchen that serves the community. “The closure is making it extremely difficult for parents and congregants to get access to the mosque without having to travel the deviated extra eight to 10 kilometres. The price of fuel is escalating. From what we have observed only a small portion needs to be completed. This will not only benefit us but the entire community,” he said. Farouk said they were frustrated with the closure and have now sought plans to cut their own road from the mosque premises to meet with Sea Cow Lake Road. The gradient is steep, Farouk said, and they were waiting for engineering plans to be passed. “We hope to create an alternative entrance to the mosque premises to ease the burden on Kenville Road. It would take some time for plans to be approved,” he said. Mayisela added that the appointed contractor will complete the original scope of works and restore Kenville Road. “The City notes the community’s frustrations and acknowledges that the matter merits urgent priority. We apologise and ask for further patience while working to resolve this matter,” Mayisela said. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News