Durban - The Democratic Alliance (DA) has called for Ugu District Municipality to be put under administration as it struggles to deal with the water situation among other challenges it faces. KwaZulu-Natal DA spokesperson on Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) Chris Pappas said he had written to KZN Cogta MEC Sipho Hlomuka and KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala on the challenges facing Ugu. “The residents of Ugu on KZN’s South Coast have suffered for too long under an incapable and uncaring government. Weeks without water, a lack of transparency and failing state institutions have left them with few remaining options. The DA cannot accept that this community should be forced to take legal action against a government which will then use their hard-earned tax money to defend its failures,”  Pappas said. Pappas said the DA has consistently made recommendations on how to fix the problems facing Ugu District Municipality. Some of these solutions include putting the municipality under administration. Pappas admitted that it could be even too late to do this. Another solution was to instruct Umgeni Water to take over the distribution of water over the entire area. “Conducting investigations into the cause of the collapse of the municipality and holding those responsible accountable and utilising national and provincial grant funding to alleviate years of financial mismanagement and lack of investment,” he said. If the DA did not get a response, they would be forced to take a more aggressive approach, Pappas said. Ugu District Municipality spokesperson France Zama said they were aware of the water supply challenges in the municipality and the municipality’s leader was working towards resolving them. “As we speak, leadership have sourced the assistance of Umgeni water engineers who are currently involved in dealing with our water supply system frailties which are some of the contributing factors to the water supply disruptions in some areas of the district,” said Zama. As the municipality, we will not accede to be drawn to the political posturing of political parties under the disguise of being concerned about the plight of our residents. For the record, the DA is represented in the municipal council and if they had genuine plans and contribution to make of resolving water supply challenges, such plans should have been brought through the thinking process of our council and that has not happened,” Zama said. He said they would forge ahead with implementing solutions to the water problems faced by affected residents. Daily News