Pupils at an Empangeni school are relieving themselves in bushes as the six portable toilets they have were in a shocking state. Sokhulu Primary School in Empangeni had these delivered by the Department of Education a week after schools opened. A video of these was sent to the Daily News on Wednesday showing some infested with maggots. According to the National Teachers Union (Natu) the district’s director was aware of the situation. General Secretary Cynthia Barnes explained that the toilets were used by about 423 learners each week after toilets at the school were demolished by the department. “These toilets were old, broken, dangerous and unsuitable to be used by human beings and were demolished last year. Schools in the rural areas are neglected and the department is turning a blind eye. These photos are evidence of what we have been pronouncing all along and the department has negated our findings. When are the educators and learners in the rural schools going to be perceived and treated as human beings? The department must solve this mess with immediate effect,” Barnes said. IFP MPL Mntomuhle Khawula who also sits on the Education Portfolio Committee said it was unacceptable that toilets were demolished with the intention of being replaced and then not have the project prioritised. “This is common in KZN, the department doesn’t put first things first. They closed schools that they said were non functional but those schools are on the list with others up for renovations. Priorities in the department are screwed, administration in the department is not working. In Umzimkhulu we had a similar situation where the principal nearly had to close the school because of unserviced portable toilets,” said Khawula. Khawula said he would be bringing the pictures and video to the attention of the MEC. DA KZN Education spokesperson Imran Keeka described the pupils as suffering an indignity. “There is a reason that they are subject to such humiliation.There is simply no political will to hold people accountable for not doing their job and even less for those who allegedly loot. We can't be bluffed by a few examples of suspensions of those involved. There must be a thorough internal investigation into this abuse of learners’ rights to basic sanitation and dignity,” he said. Keeka said he believed that if nothing was done by the department, the South African Human Rights Commission should be involved. “This affront is a reminder that we still have some 1 100 schools in KZN with pit latrines. What is their state and how would those who hold high office feel if these children were their flesh and blood? It cannot be acceptable under any circumstance,” Keeka said. Department spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi who was sent the video and pictures said: “We will send our district officials to attend to this matter urgently.” anelisa.kubheka@inl.co.za Daily News