Durban - ORGANISATIONS that supported the state of Israel have said the decision to make Constitutional Court Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng apologise for comments he made at a webinar last year in support of Israel was a form of “cancel culture”. The comments were made as the Chief Justice refused to apologise for his remarks. The South African Friends of Israel said they were “appalled” by the recent decision by the Judicial Conduct Committee (JCC) as it set to censure and silence Mogoeng. “The Chief Justice's remarks are legitimate, fair and non-controversial. They were made in accordance with his deeply held religious beliefs which are protected under the South African Constitution, alongside the Judicial Code which regulates judicial conduct. Religious beliefs, and the freedom to express them, do not suddenly become controversial when a small and radical group of anti-Israel activists deem them to be,” they said. Legal experts have said Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng should show contrition and apologise for remarks he made about Israel. | @TheMercurySA https://t.co/oWruG2atrC The movement said the judgment was a form of “institutional cancel culture against judges” who expressed their Christian beliefs that underpinned their support for Israel and peace. “The South African Friends of Israel strongly protests the decision from the JCC. It cannot be that a few small but noisy and extremist groups have the last say on the beliefs and views of peace-loving South Africans.” It was previously reported that Mogoeng got himself into hot water after he said that, as a Christian, he was obligated to love Israel and pray for Jerusalem’s peace and, by virtue of that fact, Israel’s peace. At a webinar hosted by Israeli newspaper The Jerusalem Post, Mogoeng said: “If I curse Abraham and Israel, the almighty God will curse me too. I cannot do anything, as a Christian, other than love and pray for Israel because I know hatred for Israel by me and for my nation can only attract unprecedented curses.” His comments raised the ire of Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions South Africa and #Africa4Palestine, among others. These organisations lodged a complaint against him at the Judicial Service Commission, which referred the matter to the JCC. Retired Gauteng Deputy Judge President Phineas Mojapelo told Mogoeng to apologise unconditionally for being involved in a political controversy. South African Zionist Federation national chairperson Rowan Polovin said they were concerned by the JCC’s ruling for three reasons. “Firstly, the original comments of the Chief Justice were legitimate, fair, and impartial. They gave full credence to both sides of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. They are balanced and expressed support for a peaceful resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian issue. “The second reason was that it would make the Chief Justice’s call for balance in this foreign conflict into a matter that was politically controversial. “The last reason was that this led to a form of cancel culture in the country. If one is not blatantly anti-Israel, then one’s comments are not acceptable political discourse in this country. It leads to a chilling effect where pro-Israel or even balanced opinions are silenced,” he said. The South African Jewish Board of Deputies said it could not comment on the matter as it had a case before the Constitutional Court. mphathi.nxumalo@inl.co.za Daily News