Durban - GAUTENG resident Dr Mahlogonolo Thobane has been appointed president of the Criminological Society of SA (Crimsa). Thobane, a senior lecturer at Unisa’s College of Law, will serve a three-year term as  president. She is the first black woman to hold this position. She served as the vice-president from 2018 to 2020. Crimsa is a locally and internationally recognised, interdisciplinary professional society, promoting theoretical and applied criminology and related disciplines in Africa and further afield. Its aims are to promote, co-ordinate and apply the criminological sciences —criminology, victimology and applied criminal justice studies in particular, but also any academic discipline focusing on crime and victimisation, conflict, deviance, abuse of power and reaction to crime and other crime-related phenomena in the broad criminological sciences and applied criminal justice fields — through study and academic interaction. Thobane emphasised that, as the president of a diverse and interdisciplinary society, she would continue to grow African leadership and African scholarship that works towards a common goal. Her field of research specialisation is cash-in-transit robberies and gender-based violence. Thobane said her vision with Crimsa for the next three years is to shape and shift the mainstream criminology ideology that has pushed the African voice and way of knowing to the periphery while centring voices and knowledge from the Global North. “I am at the helm of a social sciences society in South Africa. A key task for me during my three-year tenure is to ensure that our society transforms in its truest sense. I hope after me our society will never have to celebrate the first black  again. This cannot be the status quo in 2021 and beyond,” Thobane said. Professor Puleng LenkaBula, Unisa principal and vice-chancellor, said her appointment is a historical milestone that illustrates transformation and contributes towards building an inclusive society where every member enjoys equal participation within the discipline. The society was founded by Professor Beaty Naudé who worked for the Department of Criminology at Unisa (now Criminology and Security Science). During her time at Unisa, from the late 1970s-to late 1990s, she travelled extensively to present papers at conferences in various countries. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News