Durban – Operation Vala – a two-day multidisciplinary operation in Durban involving various units from the SAPS, metro police, Home Affairs, Department of Labour and other stakeholders – resulted in 16 arrests, 32 fines being issued and 49 bags of goods seized. The operation is to tighten security measures across the provinces through law enforcement operations and monitoring cross-border and inter-provincial movement to ensure citizens’ safety. Joining the operation was acting Transport and Community Safety and Liaison MEC Kwazi Mshengu, acting SAPS provincial commissioner Major-General Thulani Gonya and his management, Durban district commander Major-General Vukani Mgobhozi and the eThekwini Municipality Business Support Unit. Operation Vala also involved the removal of illegal posters, checking on the compliance of the Disaster Management Act and the non-compliance of eThekwini municipal by-laws. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said that on Saturday two suspects were arrested with illegal firearms, and they faced charges of illegal firearm possession. “The successes achieved during the operation include 16 suspects who were arrested for various crimes such as possession of drugs, violation of the Second-Hand Goods Act, possession of stolen property and counterfeit goods, as well as violations of the Disaster Management Act,” said Gwala. “A total of 32 fines were issued for offences such as trading without a permit, and failing to comply with police instructions. A total of 49 bags of goods were seized during the operation.” On Friday, Mshengu said: “We are focusing particularly around trading areas, as this is the area that is troubling us because it’s resulting in tensions between South Africans and foreign nationals which, if we don’t nip in the bud, has the possibility of escalating into xenophobic violence.” Mshengu said the ongoing crime prevention and crime-combating enforcement operations had yielded positive results as more than 25 people had been arrested for being in possession of drugs, possession of dangerous weapons, robbery and other transgressions in February. He was concerned about the slow pace of issuing trading licences by the eThekwini Metro as this was an issue raised by many people he spoke to during the operations. Therefore, he would engage with mayor Mxolisi Kaunda and the city leadership to address the matter. Mshengu said multidisciplinary operations must be expanded to other districts such as Pietermaritzburg because they wanted to ensure that KwaZulu-Natal was a province in which people respected the law. “We don’t want people to do as they please and allow lawlessness to reign supreme, that is why we have given the police a clear message to enforce the law whether a person is a South African or a foreign national. If a person is on the wrong side of the law they must face the consequences,” said Mshengu. Daily News