DURBAN - Cash-in-transit heist robbers left empty-handed as they dropped a money box they had just snatched from a security officer in uMlazi’s V-section. Police spokesperson Colonel Brenda Muridili said that on Tuesday just after 9.30am a security officer offloading a money box from a cash van was shot in the hand by suspects. “The suspects grabbed the money box and tried to flee but the driver of the cash van followed them, forcing the suspects to drop the money box while fleeing. The injured security officer was taken to hospital; no money was taken. The incident took place at the Ntokozweni Post Office in uMlazi.” A video of the aftermath was shared on a Facebook group as residents asked what happened after seeing a Netcare helicopter landing in the middle of a shopping complex in the township. Meanwhile, two hijackers are expected to appear in court on Thursday. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said that on March 25 at 6am, a complainant parked his vehicle outside his home in Bergville when he was approached by two unknown men. “At gunpoint, the suspects demanded the car keys. The suspects took the vehicle keys and a TV set and fled in the complainant's vehicle. Charges of car-jacking and robbery were opened for investigation by the Bergville SAPS. “The Ladysmith Vehicle Crime Investigation Unit, Bergville, Winterton SAPS and a private security company followed up information regarding a hijacked vehicle on Tuesday. The vehicle was spotted on the Loskop Road and the team proceeded to the scene. Two suspects aged 20 and 31 years were placed under arrest and will appear before the Bergville Magistrate’s Court on Thursday,” said Gwala. She said that in a separate case, two suspects who had allegedly terrorised the community of Mbhoshongweni in Ulundi appeared in the Mahlabathinin District Court on Tuesday and were remanded until April 6. “Ntuthuko Sihle Sithole, 19, and Sithembiso Bongani Phakathi, 40, have been troubling the community by breaking into their houses, robbing and raping them. The suspects are facing four counts of rape, five robberies and two burglary cases. These incidents took place between January 2021 and March 2021.The suspects mostly targeted people who were living in the cottages alone and who came to Ulundi for work purposes. At knife-point they threatened the victims, raped them and took their belongings before fleeing.” The acting provincial commissioner for KwaZulu-Natal, Major-General Thulani Gonya, commended the task team. "Criminals should not think they can get away with crime in this province. We hope the victims will find peace knowing the suspects will face the music," he said. anelisa.kubheka@inl.co.za Daily News