Durban - A MEMBER of the Pinetown Community Policing Forum (CPF) is calling on the authorities to install cameras at crime hot spots. A message going viral on social media urged motorists to be alert when entering the Pinetown CBD. The message, from a source that cannot be traced, wrote: “We were at the robot waiting for a green light when two men approached the vehicle. One put his hand through the window and switched off the vehicle while the other produced a knife and held it at my neck. The one guy reached over to take Cohen's phone from his hand, but I swung my arm and hit the phone out of Cohen's hand. “I think this took them by surprise, and at the same time Cohen grabbed the steering lock and hit the guy on his hand. This gave me an opportunity to quickly start the vehicle and, with the two guys still hanging onto the vehicle, I took off. I hurt my wrist in the process, but that was about it. They did not get anything from us or manage to hurt us in any other way.” Pinetown CPF member Monty Esterhuizen said this was an ongoing concern for them. He said they had brought this to the Durban Metro police and Pinetown SAPS’s attention on many occasions. “Many people have been stabbed by these guys when the victims resist. They used to be a larger gang but three of them were shot dead,” Esterhuizen said. He said he had witnessed many robberies take place in and around the Department of Home Affairs. “We make an effort to warn our residents not to drive with their car windows open. It was quiet since October but it must be starting up again. None of the cameras work in the CBD. I have even offered to fix them for Durban Metro so we can track these guys, but to no avail,” Esterhuizen said. Durban Metro Police spokesperson Parboo Sewpersad said a joint effort with the SAPS was needed. In October 2020, a police officer, in his private vehicle, was stationary in traffic at the intersection of Anderson and Josiah Gumede (Old Main) Road when he was approached by three men carrying knives. The men allegedly attempted to take his keys. The officer fired a shot, killing one of the men.  A few days before that, another robber was shot dead by a victim at the same intersection. In  August 2016, politician Visvin Reddy was stabbed in the arm by robbers near the Home Affairs offices in Pinetown. Five men had surrounded his car and demanded his cellphone. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News