PROFESSIONAL nurses who were called in for an assessment at Dr Pixley ka-Isaka Seme Memorial Hospital last Tuesday have accused Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane of lying about only inviting 250 health workers to be assessed. There was a stampede at the new hospital grounds when scores of unemployed nurses arrived for assessments. Nurses also claimed the Department of Health was not ready for them as two tents were only erected around 9am; anyone was let in and identity documents and SMSes were not checked; nurses were only given 20 minutes to complete the assessment instead of the allocated 45 minutes; and some nurses allegedly cheated by sharing and discussing the assessment paper. As a result, the nurses felt it was an unfair process and appealed for a reassessment. “I’m not attacking the MEC, but her statements were lies because last Tuesday was a disaster,” said a nurse. She said a colleague who wrote the assessment after her, told her that while they were writing, other nurses were standing behind them in order to book their chair. She was so traumatised, she needed to go for counselling. “We just want the Health MEC to retest us. It must be a fair process, there must be social distancing and we must not be treated like cattle,” said the nurse. A second nurse said they were packed like sardines and were afraid of getting injured during the stampede. She said the exam room was “a complete mockery”. “The matrons and invigilators could not stop talking and we could barely concentrate. While those waiting outside the tent were making a huge noise. “It was an appalling disgrace from start to finish. The whole world has come to understand the value of the nurse. However, it seems the powers that be in South Africa had at least for one day forgotten,” the nurse said. “We were treated with such indignity, it makes me sad.” A third nurse questioned why they were more than 250 assessments if only 250 were called. “I asked one of the matrons to check my identity document and she said they have it on the system. They said leave the question paper on the desk, but most people were taking the question paper, giving it to others and working out answers, some in their cars and others at KFC (Bridge City Mall),” the nurse said. She questioned how the same question paper was given to all nurses because different departments, such as intensive care, deserved different questions. “We’re not saying give us the job, but we want a fair interview. Where we can sit for 45 minutes and not 20 minutes,” the nurse said. A fourth nurse said: “The process was unfair as others that wrote in the afternoon already had the paper while we were told to leave everything behind. “If they called 250 people, how come they allowed 400 people to sit?” The nurse said there was also no proper checking of identity documents. Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa provincial secretary Mandla Shabangu said they had not received any complaints from nurses while Public Servants Association of SA provincial manager Mlungisi Ndlovu said the department should process complaints then take a decision to make the process fair. Both unions said applicants can send them their complaints and they would forward them to the department, or they could complain to the department directly. Department spokesperson Ntokozo Maphisa said: "The department stands by its earlier statements on this matter, which have covered all relevant areas. The Daily News has been made privy to this. The department will therefore not be commenting further." thobeka.ngema@inl.co.za Daily News