Durban - As police continue with their investigation into the murder of a 79-year-old  Pietermaritzburg woman, her family believes the suspect police are searching for stays close to where she lived. Thokozile Mariah Ngwenya, who was found half naked with her hands tied and her face covered with a scarf, was buried on Saturday in Lincoln. On Wednesday, it will be a week since her body was discovered by neighbours in Mbali Unit 3, who saw her kitchen door was not closed properly that morning. Ngwenya’s home was ransacked and her pension money and cellphone were stolen. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said the circumstances surrounding the murder were still being investigated. Ngwenya’s grandson, Vusi Ngwenya, said the family believed the people who killed her knew her and her routine. “There’s a nurse renting here and also acts as a caregiver and guardian. She works at Grey’s Hospital and on her days off she goes home. There were people who knew that my grandmother would be alone. People who knew that the kitchen door would be easy to break into.” Vusi explained his grandmother’s kitchen door faced a neighbouring house while the lounge door faced the road. “The kitchen door is at the side of the house and most hit by rain, so the door, while it closes and locks, it’s easy to break into. They stuffed a cloth in her  mouth to keep her quiet, put a scarf over her face because he didn’t want to see her face because he knew her. My grandmother kept money hidden in her room at a certain place and that spot was ransacked. We don’t have any information or leads that we know and we don’t want to speculate, but what we do know is these are people who knew all these things about my grandmother.” He said the family had faith that police would find those responsible for Ngwenya’s death. “My grandmother was 79, she was turning 80 next Thursday. While she was this old she was still very active doing things on her own. She worked hard as a domestic worker and raised all of us. She worked very hard to build her home. We are devastated as a family and all we want to do is lay eyes on these people to find out the motive. What would drive one to do this to an old woman?” anelisa.kubheka@inl.co.za Daily News