Durban - ELEVEN employees of the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education, including staff and teachers, have been found guilty of misconduct. This month, 12 appeals were finalised, with 11 being upheld by the presiding officers of the hearings, said education department spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi. According to the department, the final sanctions following the appeal process in the 11 cases range from being fired to suspension with pay for periods not exceeding three months, coupled with written warnings where necessary. The misdemeanours, all of them serious, included one or more of the following: * Sexual abuse or harassment of pupils or co-workers; * Corporal punishment/assault of pupils; * Assault/attempted assault of co-workers and other stakeholders in education; * Examination-related fraud; * Instigating pupils or other persons to engage in unlawful conduct to disrupt learning and teaching; * Abuse of power or privileges, such as transport costs; and * Insubordination or insolence. There were five assault cases and two sexual assault cases. There was one case each of: instigating pupils to rebel; locking of school officials and pupils (matron: boarding school); absenteeism from school and workshop; unauthorised school trip; abuse of a state vehicle and misinterpretation of legislation. Mahlambi said the disciplinary process, including the outcome of the appeals, should sound a warning to employees of the consequences of committing misconduct. “The department regularly processes appeals against the findings and/or sanctions imposed in disciplinary hearings against staff members. We are serious in instilling a disciplined and professional service to further the education of pupils,” he said. Mahlambi said the department worked in close association with professional regulatory bodies, such as the South African Council of Educators, which may institute disciplinary proceedings against teachers who breach its professional code of ethics. “Consequences may include being debarred from serving as a teacher in South Africa,” Mahlambi said. National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa) KZN chief executive Thirona Moodley said they constantly raised concerns about the inordinate delays in the disciplinary process. Moodley said delayed disciplinary processes may result in teachers continuing to teach, and this did not auger well for the profession. She said it was also wasteful expenditure, as these employees were being paid while the matter was on appeal. “We must ensure that educators are given the soonest opportunity to answer any charges levelled against them. Delays in this process result in the teachers being left in limbo for years not knowing their fate,” Moodley said. Parents Association of Kwazulu-Natal chairperson Vee Gani said for far too long the department has been dragging their feet, especially in disciplinary matters. “We have people who have been dismissed but are still on the payroll for years because of the appeals process. This is a wastage of taxpayers’ money,” he said. Gani said complainants lose interest when the process took too long to complete. The teachers and staff guilty of serious misconduct must not receive a mere slap on the wrist, said Dr Imran Keeka, MPL and DA KZN spokesperson on education. Keeka said the department has the second-largest staff component in the country and so it was not uncommon for many instances to arise that require disciplinary action. “Due to delays, the perpetrators of serious offences continue to work in the same environment as the victims. This causes significant anxiety and emotional turmoil. The reality, though, is that internal processes without pressing criminal charges, where applicable, amount to a mere slap on the wrist,” Keeka said. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News