DURBAN - TOURISM KwaZulu-Natal (TKZN) showcased the diverse range of wildlife and extramural activities at the Tala Collection Game Reserve as part of their campaign to promote and rebuild domestic travel since Covid-19 lockdown restrictions were adjusted. The reserve is in Camperdown and the guests of honour were KZN singers/producers Arnold Phillips, better known by his stage name Aewon Wolf, and Kyle Deutsch. The duo released a song called We have it all, which paid homage to KZN and its numerous tourism experiences. The reserve is 51% owned by the local community - the Nkumbuleni Trust - and the National Empowerment Fund, following a land claim in 2006, and 49% owned by Dream Hotels, a hotel management group. Guests, including the media, were able to experience the hidden treasures of the Tala Collection Game Reserve. Tala covers over 3 000 hectares and features more than 380 bird species.   Big game includes kudu, hippo, giraffe and eland. The reserve also boasts 20 species of antelope, including some special breeds such as the oribi, bushbuck and reedbuck.   Guests were treated to one-on-one sessions in a hot air balloon and getting down and dirty on quad bikes. They were also pampered with full body massages. Tala introduced new activities such as paintball, archery and Segway. Greg Allan, general manager of the Tala Collection Game Reserve, said they were fortunate that they had day visits during lockdown level 3 whereas most places, activities and attractions were not allowed to operate.    “We have opened activities for day visitors. We hope to attract more local tourists. Unfortunately, we have lost a lot of international tourists. We are hoping that within a few months international travel restrictions will be lifted. The Covid-19 pandemic has hit most reserves hard,” Allan said. A big part of Tala’s business had been welcoming international guests as well as hosting weddings, conferences and year-end functions. Allan said Tala was conveniently located so that those travelling within the province drove a shorter distance. “If you are driving from Pietermaritzburg or Durban, you can have ample time to enjoy the attractions and still drive home for a short distance. It is a win-win situation for visitors,” he said. Daily News