Durban - DOCTORS could not remove shrapnel from a Phoenix resident’s arm on Wednesday after a robber shot at him during a hold up at his neighbour’s home. Krishna Govender, 68, and his wife Jannekey, 66, were in the lounge watching television when three men carrying guns walked in on Tuesday night. The men had derailed the driveway gate. Jannekey said she received a hard slap, was kicked, punched and threatened that she would be shot, while being dragged along the floor to her bedroom. Her mangalsutra necklace, commonly referred to as a thali, was ripped off her neck. Her husband had tied it around her neck when they got married 46 years ago. Govender said the men demanded money and jewellery. “Two of them held my wife’s hands and pulled her into the room. She was on her back screaming hysterically. They were going wild. They beat her up. I pleaded with them to spare our lives. They pulled everything out from the cupboards. I had R2 000 in savings for groceries which I gave them so they could leave my wife alone. Her screams alerted the neighbours,” he said. The 38-year-old neighbour, an IT specialist, who did not want to be named, told the Daily News he saw a white Toyota Corolla drive up the road and then return and park outside his neighbour’s home. He was repairing his gutter when he heard his neighbour scream for help.  When he approached his fence, which overlooks his neighbour’s house, the Corolla driver pressed on the hooter. “One man got out of the car and shot at me. I took cover behind my wall. There were loud bangs. I held my head. I alerted my family to stay down and not to come out. When I got up to run into the house, he shot again. The shrapnel struck me twice on the right arm. We locked the doors and sat on the floor until it was all clear. It was a near death experience,” he said. The doctor told him that they would not be able to operate on his right arm because the shrapnel was lodged close to an artery. He also had a wound on his head. Police found six R4 rifle cartridges at the scene. Phoenix Community Policing Forum chairperson Umesh Singh said there was an increase in house robberies and theft out of residents’ homes. “It is really a difficult situation. We urge residents to make sure their gates and doors are locked at all times,” Singh said. Phoenix SAPS are investigating a case of robbery. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News