Cape Town – Three people have been hospitalised with gunshot wounds after a gunman fired a salvo of bullets into a crowd in Wentworth yesterday. Community activists lobbying for peace and an end to gun-related violence in the suburb blamed inadequate police resources and the justice system. Emmanuel Johnson, 29, his neighbour Samantha Richards, 32, and a third person whose name is not known to the Daily News, as well as other residents were socialising alongside a block of flats on Hime Street when a gunman walked down the staircase and began shooting at them just after 1am. Johnson is a mechanical fitter and father of one. His mother Victoria said her son was walking towards the flat when a friend stopped him to borrow a cigarette lighter. “A bullet hit him on the thigh. These random shootings are uncalled for. We only hear rumours as to who is involved. Even the elderly are not safe any more. ’’Another boy is still recovering in hospital after being shot in the mouth a month ago. My flat is close to the road. Previously, a bullet came through my window and struck the door,” she said. Richards, who is unemployed, was shot in the leg and arm. Stray bullets struck several window panes in the adjourning flats. ’’One of the residents, who did not want to be named, said his son was asleep when two bullets struck the window pane and hit the wall close to him. “I trained my boys to roll off the bed and remain low on the ground when they hear gunshots. My son is lucky to be alive. He would have been killed in his sleep. ’’He did not realise the bullet heads were on the floor surrounded by chips of wall plaster. We don't put the light on at night for safety reasons. He was only made aware when he got up after 6am,” he said. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said a case of attempted murder was being investigated by Wentworth SAPS. Hime Street is situated near two other drug dens on Woodville Road where a drug war has claimed more than a dozen lives. Community activist Desmond D’Sa said people had seen the shooters, in different vehicles, driving around the area during the course of the week. D’Sa said role-players put a police task team in place to deal with the shootings, but felt they were not proactive. He said the intended targets were released on bail recently. “Despite residents informing the police, where is the Crime Intelligence Unit and patrols to catch them? We are going nowhere if the police do not act. The police know the hot spots. Community activists are tired of meeting with the police. Innocent people are becoming victims. Maybe they think our lives are cheap,” he said. Community Policing Forum chairperson Donny Anderson said the homes of innocent people were damaged by stray bullets. “The community is fed up with all this random shooting. The main problem is the judicial system. Known culprits are being given bail,” he said. A well-placed source said the KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Organised Crime anti-gang unit was investigating 10 murder cases in Wentworth and has arrested 16 people including a Wentworth policeman. The source said 14 gang members were awaiting trial in the Westville Correctional Services. Other related shootings in Wentworth reported recently by the Daily News include: On January 18,  a police firearm (9mm Z88), ammunition (15 live rounds) and cocaine were recovered from a 22-year-old man on Hime Street. Another firearm, a .38 Special with three rounds of ammunition, was found abandoned on the ground. On January 19, Bradley Davids, aka Gooch, was shot and killed on the Bluff. He was allegedly involved in the drug trade at Woodville and Woodstock Road drug dens. His alleged boss, Simone aka “Moni” Jasmin, was killed in October 2020. In October 2020, two teenage boys and a woman were shot and wounded when gunmen opened fire on a known drug den on Woodville Road. In May 2018, an alleged drug peddler was stabbed to death and a bystander wounded during a shoot-out between feuding drug gangs in the Hime Street flats.   