Durban - WITH the KwaZulu-Natal DA elective congress done and dusted, the picture of a lily-white male leadership that emerged has sparked criticism from political analysts. Among those elected on Saturday was Francois Rodgers, who took over Zwakele Mncwango and announced earlier this year that he would not be vying for the position; Chris Pappas was chosen as the deputy leader and Dean Macpherson scooped the position of partly chairperson –  this rounding off the top three leadership positions. Political analyst Professor Sipho Seepe said: “The first thing that needs to be understood is that the DA has not put transformation at the top of its agenda.” He said the party had a history of patriarchy and racial prejudice. He said the DA was anti-transformation when compared to the ANC and other political parties which placed transformation at the centre of their functioning. Seepe also noted that the lack of transformation would not have a significant impact on the party's chances at the local government elections to be held later this year. The reason for this was the electorate were interested in people who could solve their problems. He said that he knew some people who were ANC members who voted for the DA because they did not trust their own colleagues to do the job properly. An example of this is that of Herman Mashaba and the impact he had in Joburg even though he was a political novice, Seepe said. Political analyst Professor Boitumelo Senokoane said it had to be acknowledged that the DA was a “white party”. He said when Mmusi Maimane and Lindiwe Mazibuko were still part of the DA they tried to change it. Senokoane said Maimane tried to change the DA through black methodologies and improve the party. He said the former party leader tried to appeal to black people in townships and this came at the cost of white voters who migrated to the Freedom Front Plus. He said the current strategy was to woo white voters back and hope that black voters would stay with the party even though there was racism within the DA. Senokoane said he would like to know how traditional DA supporters would react to the rise of Mashaba’s party Action SA in the local government elections this year. Newly elected DA deputy chairperson Sithembiso Ngema said  people should not be under any misconception that the DA was for white people only. He said people came from various racial backgrounds and voted for the candidates through various party structures . “This should not be about race. It should be about what is the person going to do for the people,” he said. Ngema said what needed to be looked at were the policies of the organisation and what the organisation was trying to achieve. He said the organisation needed an experienced leader who would address the challenges that were facing the people of KZN. Ngema said some people were not looking at what the leaders offered but at what their race was. Ngema added that delegates looked at what the leaders offered and this was why they were chosen. mphathi.nxumalo@inl.co.za Daily News