Durban - THE UGU District Municipality has until Friday to provide a report back on the sewage spillage which has polluted the Uvongo river and beach on the KwaZulu-Natal south coast. The provincial Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs MEC Ravi Pillay directed the municipality to act urgently when he conducted an in loco inspection of the area on Monday. He said he received complaints from concerned members of the public. The directive was issued by the department under Section 28(4) of the National Environmental Management Act. The site visit included an inspection of the two sewage pump stations (pump station 2 and pump station 3) in Uvongo. Pillay said the pump stations have been overflowing, leading to sewage flowing into the river and onto the beach. “While the two pump stations are not faulty, the overflow is linked to the damage to the pipeline connecting the two pump stations to the wastewater treatment works. The damage to the asbestos-cement pipeline was discovered at Pioneer Road,” said Pillay. The MEC was assured that the municipality was limiting the impact on the environment. Pillay said some of the measures already in place included using tankers to suction sewage at the two pump stations in order to limit the overflow. “Officials from the municipality also said there was a move to connect a temporary line at Pioneer Road. I am concerned that this matter has been left to go on for many weeks. This is why we have issued this directive as a form of administrative enforcement. The department has the right to pursue criminal enforcement but we hope it does not come to that,” he said. “A pollution incident of this nature may result in environmental damage and degradation. Not only does this spillage infringe on the rights of residents but it may also have a negative impact on tourism which is the lifeblood of many of our coastal areas, especially on the south coast.” Ray Nkonyeni Municipality ward 19 councillor George Henderson said three tenders were issued to replace the 200m pipe since January. Henderson said the leak began in November. Since December, suction-capable trucks were deployed to pump station 2 and 3 between 6am and  pm. “Overnight, the sewage overflows into the ocean in Uvongo. Trucks have been operational since December. People who live near the pump station have had to live with the stench 24 hours a day,” he said. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News