DURBAN - AN Eastern Cape family was overjoyed to be reunited with their relative who went missing five years ago when he left Cacadu (formerly known as Lady Frere) and hit hard times. Their reunion was made possible through the dedication of a social worker from eThekwini Municipality’s Safer Cities project. Social worker, Zodwa Syberose-Msuthu said Amos Patreni, 49, had lived on the streets of Durban until Covid-19 struck and then lived at the Jewish Homeless Shelter near the Elangeni Hotel on the Durban beachfront. Syberose-Msuthu said they often interviewed homeless people about their backgrounds in an effort to reunite them with their families.   “When I interviewed Amos he told me that he had left home because he was dependent on family for everything and he decided to leave to look for a job because he did not want to be a burden on them as they were poor. He saw himself as a failure,” she said. When he arrived in Durban he found some odd jobs, but soon fell on hard times and ended up living on the streets. Syberose-Msuthu said she asked him if he knew anyone who might be on social media and Amos mentioned a relative who might be on Facebook. She made contact with him and this led to the family arranging to come to Durban to fetch him. When the family arrived last Friday, they travelled around the city looking for him but they could not find him. They decided to wait for him at the shelter because he was likely to return there at the end of the day. “At about 5pm he came back to the shelter. I was shocked and happy that I was able to see people reconnect,” Syberose-Msuthu said. Amos’s nephew, Mphathi, said his uncle left home in 2016 to look for work. Amos never told the family where he went, though, and this left the family worried. They were thrilled to finally find their uncle and were grateful to Syberose-Msuthu, who had “gone the extra mile” and helped them on her day off. “I work as a nurse and this has inspired me to work extra hard,” she said. Mphathi said the family also loved how Syberose-Msuthu treated homeless people. “She treated them like human beings and not as homeless people,” he said. For Syberose-Msuthu there were many homeless people who needed help and she hoped that people would come to shelters to look for their loved ones. She said they faced challenges helping those who grew up in the child welfare system and who did not know their family history while others were born on the streets and had no information, which made reunifying them with relatives challenging. They also tried to get identity documents for homeless people as this was a problem for many of them. Daily News