Durban - THE IFP has launched a scathing attack on two companies that were involved in repairing the passenger lifts at Addington Hospital. The non-operational lifts in the hospital were thrust into the spotlight, after the KwaZulu-Natal budget speech was delivered by Finance MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube. She allocated a budget of R26.6 million to the Department of Health to replace 43 lifts in various facilities, including Addington Hospital, King Edward Hospital, RK Khan Hospital, St Aidan’s Hospital, Prince Mshiyeni Hospital, Edendale Nurses Home, and St Mary’s Hospital. In 2012, the department allocated R200 million for the refurbishment of Addington Hospital. On several occasions, staff, visitors and patients were forced to walk up flights of stairs to access wards. Some resorted to using the service lifts. The hospital has 16 lifts in total, throughout the facility. DA KZN spokesperson on health MPL Dr Rishigen Viranna said two or three lifts out of eight, in the main block, work at any given time. In September 2019, the Health Department put out a call for tenders for the replacement, service and maintenance of lifts (16 units) at Addington Hospital, for a three-year contract. The tender document explained that frequent flooding and water ingress was expected in the lift pits, as severe weather conditions have historically caused major damage. Those taking on the tenders were asked to provide any measures necessary to mitigate or limit damage caused by flooding of lift pits (despite sump pits being fitted). Otis (PTY) LTD was awarded the contract of R21 839 747,  in January 2020. IFP KZN spokesperson for health MPL Ncamisile Nkwanyana said the department spent almost R2.5 million fixing faulty lifts at Addington Hospital. She said this was revealed by Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane, in response to questions put to her in the provincial legislature. The department revealed that the expenditure, as of October 31, 2020, was R2 420 653.82, paid to Schindler Lifts SA and OTIS, respectively. Nkwanyana said it was outrageous that such a large sum of money has been paid to these companies. “These companies have failed dismally in fixing the lifts at Addington Hospital. Why are these two companies awarded tenders? Lifts at Addington Hospital become faulty at any given moment, which puts the lives of patients and workers at risk,” Nkwanyana said. In a statement from Schindler Lifts (SA), they originally installed the lifts at the hospital in 1967. It was the original equipment manufacturer of the existing lifts. On February 27, 2020, Schindler lost the lift replacement tender. Ten lifts were in working order at the time. The lifts were officially handed over, in July 2020, to the department. Schindler Lifts were not involved in any maintenance since. Otis SA stated that they could not comment on the previous maintenance work done by other contractors, but confirmed they were in the process of completing the manufacturing of the lifts. It is expected to be installed by May 2021. Nkwanyana urged government structures to entrench performance-based systems for contracts, and to move towards weeding out contractors who do shoddy work. “The government continues to lose millions of rand when the contractors are not delivering as expected,” Nkwanyana said. Viranna said the budget of R26.6 million for lift upgrades will be shared between seven hospitals. “Addington Hospital alone will need that amount to upgrade all its lifts. That amount will not cover the actual need to return the hospital back to full functionality.” zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News