Durban - WELL-KNOWN Durban piano player Roderick Palmer is no more. The 72-year-old died on Thursday. He had played the piano at the Windermere Centre in Durban. Close friend Andrew Warburton said Palmer graced many Durban hotels such as the Royal, Beverly Hills and Oyster Box with his music. He also played at Windermere Centre and Mitchell Park. Born in the United Kingdom, Palmer moved to South Africa with his family at an early age and worked various jobs including working for a diamond cutter affiliated to De Beers. Warburton said Palmer played for several singing teachers’ studios in Johannesburg before later moving to Durban where he became a familiar face all around the city. “He was very well known for brightening up the lives of many senior citizens who often made special trips to listen to him play at Windermere Centre,” Warburton said. Windermere Centre management sad they were saddened by Palmer’s death. The centre described him as a delightful, caring and generous man who was well-loved by his family, friends and shoppers alike. “He brought so much joy to the centre and its shoppers through his beautiful melodies and musical talent. He will be missed by all of us. Thank you for the beautiful music, Rod,” said the Centre. Adrienne P K Humfrey said Palmer was a precious human and a dear friend of her family for many years. Her daughters sat next to him while he was playing the piano at the Beverly Hills Hotel. Sharon Westcott said Palmer gave time and talent to play the organ at St Michael’s Anglican Church in uMhlanga for a while. Close friend Shahir Ramdass said Palmer was a gentleman in every sense of the word, with high integrity and an absolute magician on the piano. “He was effervescent and magnetic and mesmerised audiences  with his piano. I fondly remember women swooning at him at Windermere Centre which he always took in good humour and a hint of shyness,” Ramdass said. “We all have wonderful memories to hold on to and we were certainly blessed to have been in his presence! His energy, zest for life and unselfish manner to go above and beyond to help anyone, no matter the task and despite his physical challenges, will be greatly missed.” zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News