Durban - THE Provincial Executive Committee of the KwaZulu-Natal ANC has called for the end of “selective justice”. The PEC two-day meeting in Durban ended on Monday. The provincial leadership and its National Executive Committee deployees discussed, among others, issues affecting the ruling party and resolved that corruption-accused cadres must step aside. Scandals, factional battles and the selective application of justice against some individuals were identified as the primary causes of the challenges facing the party. A source, who attended the meeting but did not want to be named, said there was consensus from most members at the meeting that there were patterns of preferential treatment and favouritism. He also highlighted the recent revelations by ANC chairperson Gwede Mantashe who last week testified at the Zondo Commission of Inquiry into Allegations of State Capture that he did not receive invoices for the security upgrades installed at his three properties. The source claimed that while some ANC members were expected to account for any suspicious activities, some leaders who allegedly received bribes were not being held accountable for their involvement in corrupt activities as they allegedly enjoyed protection from powerful leaders in the ANC. "Questions were asked why Vincent Smith would be charged and relieved of his duties yet Gwede Mantashe remains untouched with the same transgression," said the source. Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane was apparently adamant that he would not step down, saying he was dealing with the matters that had been raised. "My last response remains relevant. I am dealing directly with the university," he said. Mabuyane’s spokesperson, Mvusiwekhaya Sicwetsha, dismissed calls for Mabuyane to step down. Sicwetsha argued that rule 25.17.5 of the ANC constitution did not apply to Mabuyane because he had not brought the party into disrepute. Mabuyane is a senior ANC leader who found himself under fire after reports that the senate of the University of Fort Hare had prevented him from enrolling for a Master's degree. Mabuyane was accused of allegedly paying bribes to a university official who had registered him in the system despite his not meeting the requirements. According to the PEC’s agenda, seen by the Daily News, the provincial leaders demanded that individuals accused of corruption should step aside as per the resolution of the ANC’s 54th national conference. The conference resolved that those accused of being involved in corrupt practices must account to the integrity committee or face disciplinary processes. The 2015 ANC Resolution of the National General Council strengthened by the 54th national conference also resolved that the party should take decisive action against all members involved in corruption, including those who used money to influence the outcome of the conference and those who tried to subvert the membership systems of the governing party. The provincial leaders apparently also wanted action taken against members of the executive who were bringing the party into disrepute as they continued making negative comments on social media, attacking other senior members of the ANC. ANC provincial spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela said he would only respond through a media briefing expected to be held this week. "The ANC issues press releases consistently after its meeting to outline what was discussed and finalized. The same will happen in the course of the week", said Ntombela. NEC deployee to the Province, Nocawe Mafu, would not disclose what was discussed saying the NEC was convening next week and some of the issues discussed at the PEC would also be tabled at the NEC meeting. thabo.makwakwa@inl.co.za Daily News