Durban - A BONELA father of three apparently died when a vehicle ran over him while he was checking his car’s burst tyre on the N2 freeway near Spaghetti Junction. Kenny Reddy, 52, was returning home from Chatsworth in his red Hyundai Accent on Saturday night. His car tyre allegedly burst before the Durban-bound N2 and N3 split, in Sherwood. Reddy’s son Brenton believed his father got out of his car to check the tyre when another vehicle slammed into him. The family grew concerned when Reddy did not return home. After several calls to his cellphone, someone answered it. The person told Brenton that his father was “knocked” and gave him the location. “When we arrived we saw his car. It was very dark. The car hazard lights were flashing. This brought us relief. When we got off we saw him lying on the road in front of the car. The torch on his phone was still on. He was unconscious and in a bad condition. He was alone. Nobody stopped to assist him,” Brenton said. The family is uncertain if Reddy’s car tyre was slashed, if he was robbed or if his cellphone was answered by the motorist who knocked him over. His wallet and second phone were missing. “We are in a state of shock. We want justice. Whenever we close our eyes we can picture him at the crash scene,” Brenton said. On Sunday morning, the National Vehicle Intelligence Cloud team reported that a white VW Polo with no registration plates was found parked in Clare Road. The car was used in crimes in Johannesburg and Isipingo. Police impounded the car. The vehicle had bloodstains on the bonnet. The windscreen was damaged on its left side. Reddy’s family are awaiting the post-mortem results from the Phoenix mortuary. His wife, Cheryl, described him as a loving father and husband. All she wanted was closure and for witnesses to come forward. Reddy turned 52 on March 15. He had retired after working at Pick n Pay in Durban. Cheryl said: “Before he left home, he smiled and said: ’I will come back just now, baby.’ “That is the last time I got to speak to my husband. At the scene, my daughter told him she loved him. He nodded.” Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said a case of culpable homicide had been opened at the Sydenham SAPS. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News