Durban – The Eshowe social worker, charged with the murder of his six relatives, was remanded in custody until his bail application on Thursday in the Eshowe Magistrate’s Court. Last month, elderly couple Octavia and Christopher Khumalo (pictured), Octavia and Christopher Khumalo, their daughter Mbali Khumalo, 37, and her son Thabo Khumalo, 8, as well as their relatives, Snothile Hlongwane, 17, and Anothando Sgampu, were shot and killed – allegedly by Christopher’s nephew – a social worker. A nine-year-old girl, who is said to be a family relative, survived the shooting because she was allegedly in another room of the house. Police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker confirmed that “the bail application for Sthembiso Nkosinathi Mthimkhulu did not proceed on Friday, as the accused preferred another attorney”. “The case was then adjourned until March 18 for formal bail application,” he said. According to police, on the night of the shooting the murder accused allegedly arrived at the home, forced the door open with an axe and then called all the family members together. He used the pistol he was armed with to shoot and kill them. Last Saturday, Christopher Khumalo and his grand-daughter Snothile Hlongwane were laid to rest in Eshowe, while on Saturday, in Inanda, Octavia Khumalo her daughter Mbali Khumalo, her grandson Thabo, and relative Anothando Sgambu, were also buried. The South African Broadcasting Corporation at the weekend reported that a relative, Thokozani Mbatha, said she believed a sugarcane farm was the reason for the murders. Mbatha also told the SABC the surviving nine-year-old girl, who remained traumatised, had been asleep in another room when she was awoken by the noise of her family being shot. Eshowe councillor Pat Shange said he had been a senior growing up with the murder accused, and he was a grounded person who seemed to not have any mental health issues. “I know him since he was  a young child, and his character is completely different from the actions he is alleged to have committed. This is why the incident has shocked so many of us. We do not know the motive behind everything, as it seems to be something within the family.”   