Durban - PREMIER Sihle Zikalala aims to bring about long-term social, economic and environmental benefits within the province through his development trust. The Premier’s Office on Tuesday invited media to the launch on April 1 at the Coastlands Hotel in uMhlanga. The Sihle Zikalala Development Trust will bring about much-needed assistance to the the indigent and underprivileged through various interventions. It will partner with strategic organisations in bringing about these human-centred initiatives with an aim to empower communities. “Premier Zikalala saw the need to initiate the trust to create a just society underpinned by strong ethics, social cohesion, democracy and socio-economic development,” read the statement. “Working with strategic partners, the trust seeks to support communities through several initiatives that include but  not limited to poverty alleviation, anti-social ills programme, anti-women and children abuse and educational programmes.” Mbuso Majola from the Woz’obona Media, the public relations company responsible for all media enquiries on the trust,  told Daily News that the premier’s initiative was one of the many positive projects the premier had undertaken. Majola added that, like many other communities in the country, KwaZulu-Natal was hard hit by the Covid-19 pandemic and many people were left devastated by the deadly virus. “The premier is launching his long-anticipated Development Trust for the sole purpose of serving the under-privileged and assisting SMMEs stay afloat, especially during these trying times.” According to Majola, the community would not struggle to access services offered by the trust as there will be a dedicated website to provide relevant information to those in need. “The development trust will be officially launching across all social media platforms as well as a website where the masses can relay their outcries to be attended to promptly. This programme aims to bring an in-depth and valuable service to the community at large,” said Majola. Asked whether the trust would also partner with the provincial government, the premier’s spokesperson, Lennox Mabaso, said more exciting details would be revealed on the day of the launch, saying it was not one to miss. Zikalala’s growing person-centred initiative comes after he launched his Siyahlola Monitoring Programme in October last year, when he announced that his government would unlock challenges of blocked projects in the province. At the time, the premier had said the programme was also aimed at enhancing the state’s performance by dealing with wastage and poor service delivery, ensuring that projects implemented benefited the community and that front-line service applied the ethos of a caring government. thabo.makwakwa@inl.co.za Daily News