Durban - ANOTHER rapist is roaming the Durban streets, as police investigate the attempted murder and rape of a second 25-year-old woman in the past two weeks. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said the woman was allegedly raped and stabbed multiple times in a bush on Longbury Drive, in Phoenix, on Monday. “The matter is still under investigation.” Department of Social Development spokesperson Mhlaba Memela said the extent of violence against women and children was worrisome. “The gender-based violence incidents have reached a crisis point and we all need to find a solution to these cataclysmic incidents, where women and children are raped and, in some instances, murdered. “The criminals involved in these murders and rapes, at times, escape the hand of the law. But, we have full confidence in law enforcement agencies. “Gender-based violence is a societal problem that needs all people to confront it.” Phoenix community policing forum (CPF) chairperson Umesh Singh condemned the violent crimes against women. “We urge women not to walk alone, in isolated areas, for their safety. There’s no excuse for committing a crime like this.” Private security company KZN VIP spokesperson Glen Naidoo said a Longcroft resident contacted KZN VIP for assistance after she had found a young woman who had been raped and stabbed. “VIP Response units assisted by cordoning off the area and sending medical staff to assist. The crime scene was then handed over to the police. “Anyone with any information is asked to contact the Trio Crimes Unit at the Phoenix Police Station.” He said the woman who found the victim stayed by her side until help arrived. “Thank you to the resident who stayed and comforted the victim until she was taken away by medics for further treatment.” More information on the incident is yet to be provided by police to the media. Two weeks ago, another 25-year-old Durban woman was raped. She was found on the side of the N2 freeway, after being repeatedly raped at gunpoint by a taxi driver and his conductor. She was apparently too afraid to tell them she was HIV positive because she feared they would shoot her. According to the police, the woman said she stopped a taxi near the Moses Mabhida Stadium, as she was headed to KwaDukuza. “When the taxi was on the N2 Sibaya turn off, the conductor covered her mouth while the taxi driver pointed a firearm at the victim. “The victim was then raped by the suspects, who left her on the side of the road. “The circumstances surrounding the incident are being investigated, as a case of rape was opened at Verulam SAPS and will be transferred to the Phoenix FCS,” said police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala. anelisa.kubheka@inl.co.za Daily News