Cape Town – A man is expected to appear in the Durban Magistrate’s Court today on charges of fraud and possession of stolen property after he was caught with 70 South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) cards and R7 640 in cash. His recently purchased Mercedes-Benz GT 63 S was also seized. The 47-year-old was arrested on Saturday, in the Durban city centre, while withdrawing cash from different Sassa cards. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said further investigations led to the man’s home in uMhlanga, where a USB flash drive was found after it had been thrown out of the window. It was seized by police for further investigations. The arrest was made a day after Sassa and the South African Post Office (Sapo) briefed the Portfolio Committee on Social Development on their integrated plan to address challenges in the payment of all social grants. Sapo operations group executive Zukiswa Ntsikeni shared how they were mitigating the challenges they were facing, especially Covid-19 challenges. Ntsikeni said there were fraudulent activities regarding the Postbank card, but they implemented measures to actively monitor the bank accounts and implemented a bank account variation on a monthly basis. “The Post Office has also implemented a cut stock control, to make sure we are proactive in securing cards,” said Ntsikeni. She said cards were being replaced as a result of reports on fraud through Sapo issued cards. “The consequent findings of the forensic investigation that was commissioned by Sapo, Postbank was instructed, on October 1, to take a number of measures to address and mitigate against the risk of the fraud that took place.” Ntsikeni said splitting the three social grant categories – old age, disability and other grants – was successful in mitigating long queues. Sapo have also encouraged the use of the Sassa/Sapo card at various payment channels, which reduced the number of people that used cash pay points and branches. Volunteers were used in areas with longer queues. “Another intervention is to deploy staff to start at 6.30am in high volume outlets. We’ve also received assistance from Sassa, by way of volunteers that help us with long queues. We also have a team that monitors and assesses the queues from time to time. In some instances, we put chairs to implement social distancing.” Ntsikeni said for Covid-19 social relief of distress (SRD) grant queues, along with Sassa and the State Information Technology Agency (Sita), have developed a scheduling tool, where beneficiaries were directed to where to collect their payment. It also allowed clients to indicate which branches they would like to collect their grants from. Ntsikeni said cash flow projections for Sapo have improved as they tried using more Post Offices for grants. She noted the increase in Sapo robberies and they would be rolling out an electronic security system by way of cash protection devices, as well as multiple cash time-delay safes. The money would be stained, making it unusable. However, the rollout has been hampered by the limited cash flow, so it has been a bit slow. Ntsikeni also mentioned burglaries, which made Sapo increase the number of guarding services in branches, with about 6 800 guards in 1 500 sites and further deployment of 2 500 guards in SRD sites. “So far, we’ve had 118 arrests by the SAPS, as well as 22 employees that have been involved in such robberies,” said Ntsikeni. Dianne Dunkerley, Sassa executive manager for grants administration, said progress made regarding the queue management system, was having staff on rotation that were used at the service points, where possible. “They do help us maintain the queues and social distancing. They also assist with making sure that everybody in the queues keep their masks on. We have procured additional chairs that are now placed outside for clients to sit on, but this also helps us maintain social distancing,” said Dunkerley. She said overtime has been approved on disability days. Staff were on duty at local offices, from 6am to 6pm. Some offices also opened on Saturday mornings, between 8am and 1pm, for appointments made during the week for specific staff, and was only for disability clients at this stage. Cape Times