Durban - A Durban family is panicking over the mysterious disappearance of well-known builder Faizel Sayed. A missing person alert has been circulating since January 18. Sayed, 45, left his Clare Estate home at 5.50am to go to work. He was last seen at his mother's home in Overport on January 16. He told them he was going home, but he never did.  He has not been heard of or seen since. He did not have his cellphone on him at the time of his disappearance. Sayed was employed by Resay building contractors. His wife Anisa Sayed said she has become emotionally distraught. She was not sure if he was dead or alive. Her concerns about his well-being grew when he did not send their 22-year-old son birthday greetings on Sunday. They also have a 15-year-old daughter together. “He is the breadwinner at home. I get different opinions and scenarios about his disappearance from people daily. I was sent from pillar to post between police stations. The police have not responded on the outcome of their investigations,”Anisa said. Ridwaan Sayed said the family has no clue about to his brother's whereabouts. He said the family was emotional and did everything to find him. They conducted a search of the area he frequented and travelled on, but to no avail. The Islamic Watchdog Movement have pleaded for financial assistance for Sayed’s wife in the interim. In a statement, the IWM said:  “Faizel was the sole bread winner in their home, catering for the needs of Anisa and their 2 children. As time passes forward, Anisa has found herself in a state of financial distress and is pleading for financial assistance from the community until Faizel is found.” On Facebook, Rochelle Chunderpal posted: “He is a wonderful guy. If you only met him in person, you would know what a humble soul he is. Wherever he is, may the almighty protect him and bring him home safely.” Pritha Sajanlall Boodoo said: “Gosh he is missing for so long and now they looking for him, his poor family must be in anguish.” Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed that a missing person docket was opened at Sydenham SAPS. “The missing person is still being sought by police,” she said. Anyone with information regarding his whereabouts can contact their local police on Crime Line at 08600 10111. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News