Durban - ANIMAL rights activists are concerned that the trade in donkey skin could have started again. Last Monday, the Mooi River Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the Mooi River SAPS stopped a truck that was transporting donkeys at the R103/R622 intersection in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands. More than 100 donkeys were rescued. The six men who were travelling on the truck were placed under arrest by the Mooi River SAPS. National Prosecuting Authority regional spokesperson Natasha Kara said the six men appeared in the Mooi River Magistrate’s Court where the matter was adjourned until March 19 for a bail investigation. Kara said they were charged with animal cruelty. Executive director of the National Council of SPCAs (NSPCA), Marcelle Meredith said the donkeys had severe external parasite infections as well as open wounds. The donkeys were purchased in the Msinga area. They were being transported on the road between Greytown and Mooi River, and were apparently being taken to Lesotho. Meredith said the incident appeared to signal a shocking return of the donkey-skin trade after almost 18 months of what appeared to be inactivity. The NSPCA said it had received a tip-off and had to intervene urgently. Meredith said the donkeys, which included young foals, were destined for slaughter for their skins. “The NSPCA began investigating the donkey skin trade over five years ago when large numbers of unexplained donkey skins were found across multiple farms,” Meredith said. The NSPCA said the skins were used to create a traditional Chinese medicine called “ejiao”. “The manner in which the skins are obtained is gut-wrenching – starting from the way the animals are handled, transported, butchered and sometimes skinned alive,” Meredith said. Arrangements had been made for 36 female donkeys and foals to be taken to Kloof and Highway SPCA, and the other donkeys to be taken to the Johannesburg SPCA, where the NSPCA would pay for their upkeep until they could be re-homed safely. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News