THABO MAKWAKWA Durban - ESKOM has finally succumbed to pressure and heeded the call to investigate its alleged controversial “racist” group chief executive (CEO) Andre De Ruyter, however sources close to developments within the power utility are viewing it as another “whitewash” and an attempt to protect and clear the embattled executive. On Tuesday Eskom announced that its Board of Directors will appoint an independent Senior Counsel to conduct an investigation into allegations of racism levelled against De Ruyter. Eskom said that the counsel ‒ yet to be appointed ‒ will be empowered to interview any person who may be of assistance in the investigation. De Ruyter’s “racist reign of terror” caused a public outcry when he unceremoniously suspended his Chief Procurement Officer Solly Tshitangano. Tshitangano became a thorn in the side of De Ruyter when he expressed concerns about nepotism, abuse of power and racist treatment, accusing the GCEO of undermining black officials and giving preferential treatment to white executives and white companies. Spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi Majola of the National Union of Metalworkers of SA (Numsa), criticised Eskom’s Board, stating that the union had no faith in the investigation as this was yet another “whitewash” attempt meant to protect De Ruyter who had no understanding of the operations of Eskom. "Numsa has no faith in the actions taken by the Eskom Board in instituting its own investigation. It is clear that the Board is determined to protect De Ruyter who has failed as GCEO. “The same Board which pronounced in favour of Chief Operations Officer Jan Oberholzer, clearing him of all wrong-doing in September last year, now seeks to do the same ”whitewash“ in the De Ruyter matter. We make it clear that De Ruyter has facilitated the worst load shedding in this country.” A well placed source at Eskom voiced his concerns about the Eskom Board probe, saying it was a long time coming, however, it could be a whitewash against the backdrop of Parliament’s Scopa probe into the same issue. Eskom spokesperson Sikonathi Mantshantsha, defended the decision of the Board to institute its own investigation into the allegations levelled against De Ruyter. Mantshantsha said the Board was investigating the matter because allegations were made in Parliament and it wished to satisfy itself whether there was any basis for the allegations. “Eskom’s internal process is separate from whatever investigation Scopa may decide on. Eskom’s Board has a duty to ensure all of its employees are protected from any form of abuse. Similarly, all employees need to be protected from any form of unwarranted allegations,” said Mantshantsha. Asked whether De Ruyter will be placed on special leave, and if the investigation would also pay attention to nepotism and abuse of power, Mantshantsha said there were no intentions to place him on special leave. The independent investigator would be asked to investigate all allegations, and disciplinary process would follow if the need arose, he said.. Chairperson of the Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa), Mkhuleko Hlengwa, said he would not comment on Eskom’s announcement to conduct its own investigation, however, Parliament’s investigation into De Ruyter will proceed as planned.  TIMELINE Independent Media has followed Eskom developments and widely published several reports on the entity and its CEO. January 2020: De Ruyter officially takes office as GCEO to the dismay of political parties and unions, including NUM. May 2020: Eskom reports lost income of R20.5 billion under De Ruyter October 2020: Independent Media breaks the story and reports that De Ruyter “misled” the Eskom Board to cancel the R5.2bn fuel oil contract with black-owned company Econ Oil & Energy Ltd. Purging of black companies continues. In the same week, Eskom spokesperson Sikhonathi Mantshantsha publishes a statement claiming misinformation and lobbies other media houses. In the same month, Econ Oil challenges the cancellation of the tender to supply fuel and oil, stating that it is based on unproven allegations and racial bias by white executives against a black female owned firm.  Econ oil wins that initial phase of the litigation, leaving Eskom and De Ruyuter with egg on their faces. January 2021: National Union of Mineworkers complains about persistent load shedding under De Ruyter and calls for him to be replaced. February 2021: Daily News reports about De Ruyter’s racist reign of terror after he suspends Solly Tshitangano. Article by Thabo Makwakwa. March 3, 2021: Scopa suspends meeting with Eskom to consider a process that will investigate allegations levelled against De Ruyter. March 7, 2021: De Ruyter is called to account for allegations of purging black suppliers and undermining the role of black managers. March 9, 2021: Eskom Board announces it will investigate allegations against De Ruyter. cyril.makwakwa@inl.co.za Daily News