Durban - Concerns are mounting over the lack of security at the Silverglen Nature Reserve in Chatsworth after two park rangers were murdered this month. The Silverglen Conservancy which is affiliated to the Ethekwini Conservancies Forum, chairperson warned people planning to use the recreational facility to be cautious. Its chairperson, Shaun Hammond, said there were no security guards or rangers in the 420 hectare reserve that borders Chatsworth and uMlazi. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said that on March 4, 2021 at 8am, the police received a complaint of a shooting at the nature reserve. Upon arrival at the scene the police discovered two bodies of municipal employees. Charges of murder are being investigated by Bayview SAPS. No arrests have been made. Cyril Hlafuna, 39 and Jabulani Gwacela 34, were both shot multiple times inside the reserve while seated in their bakkie. Hammond said if the security issue is not attended to immediately the reserve should be shut down with immediate effect or else more staff and commuters using the reserve will be robbed and murdered. Hammond said he will present the eThekwini Municipality with a plan on proposed security upgrades. “It is sad to report that the reserve, being the largest  in the metro region, was terribly understaffed. The reserve which was once a beautiful picnic spot for the community and a tourist destination was let to deteriorate to such an unacceptable state,” Hammond said. EThekwini Municipality’s spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said the parks, leisure and cemeteries department has undertaken an assessment and review of the existing standard operating procedures in this regard and are evaluating any additional safety precautions or alternative security measures that could be put in place. Asked if the department dealing with the reserve deployed additional game rangers, Mayisela said: “For security reasons we cannot share this. However, the necessary precautions have been taken. “The reserve was closed on the day of the incident, for obvious reasons, follow-up investigations and for the staff to attend counselling and debriefing. The reserve opened a few days later,” Mayisela said. Hammond alleged that sand mining or attempted land invasions in the reserve that could be the motive for the murder. Mayisela said no sand mining has been observed at the site. “We urge those sharing information to please share it with the police for their investigation,” Mayisela said. Hlafuna worked for the council for approximately 18 years (from 2003) and Gwacela worked for the council for 5 years (since 2016). zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News