Durban - A DARK cloud has blanketed KwaZulu-Natal following deaths in the Zulu Monarch, entertainment industry and political arena this month. The province lost His Majesty King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu, actor Menzi Ngubane, former Durban mayor Sipho Ngwenya, IFP proportional representation councillor Sbani Mdletshe and Inkosi Melizwe Dlamini of the Nhlangwini Tribal Authority. His Majesty, 72, died in the early hours of Friday March 12, after spending five weeks in Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital. He had been admitted for unstable glucose levels. His Majesty’s body was taken home to Nongoma on Saturday and was expected to lie in state at KwaKhethomthandayo but that was not possible because he was believed to have died from Covid-19-related complications. On Sunday, Traditional Prime Minister to the Zulu Monarch and Nation Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi said they had a long meeting on Saturday. Buthelezi revealed that it was His Majesty’s wish to be buried privately and also at night by men only. “As His Majesty will now be interred in a private burial on Wednesday, the funeral has been amended to a memorial prayer service, to take place on Thursday,” said Buthelezi. “The tremendous support from the government has given us the peace of knowing that everything that could have been done for His Majesty was indeed done. We are convinced that there was nothing more that could have been done to spare the king’s life. It is much appreciated that the Minister of Health, Dr Zweli Mkhize, visited His Majesty in the ICU several times, as a medical doctor, to personally oversee his progress.” On Sunday, the Royal Family spoke out for the first time since His Majesty’s bowing. In a statement, the family expressed their gratitude to the entire nation for the messages of condolences they had received. “The institution of traditional leadership has been the pillar of strength and has provided immeasurable comfort to the Zulu Royal Family. The Zulu Royal family is indebted to the leaders of all political parties, at all levels, across the country for their support during this difficult period,” it said. The family said the flying of national flags at half-mast until the evening of the funeral was a mark of respect to the late king and a week of mourning provided an opportunity for the nation to reflect on the life of His Majesty, a tireless campaigner for peace, unity and development of his people. President Cyril Ramaphosa granted His Majesty a category 1 state funeral. Scores of high-profile mourners have visited the Royal Palace since His Majesty bowed to pay their respects. These included the KZN provincial government, Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize, IFP president Velenkosini Hlabisa, Police Minister Bheki Cele, former president Jacob Zuma, businessman Vivian Reddy, ANC treasurer Paul Mashatile and (representatives of) AmaZulu FC. The provincial government declared the whole week as a week of mourning which meant that all government and private functions must be suspended. The IFP National Executive Committee decided that as a sign of respect to His Majesty, they would suspend all political activities that had been scheduled until His Majesty is buried. “Pha wooh!” was how the seasoned actor Ngubane was known for. Ngubane had battled kidney failure but in the end suffered a stroke at home and died on Saturday at the age of 56. Ngubane leaves behind his wife, Sikelelwa and his two daughters. The Ladysmith-born actor’s career spans for more than three decades, having appeared in Ubambo Lwami, Kwakhala Nyonini, Yizo Yizo, Gaz’ Lam, Soul City, Generations and Isibaya, just to name a few. A family spokesperson said: “As a family we wish to thank everyone for their continued and sustained support and the prayers for our beloved son whose battle with kidney failure and sugar diabetes had become an open secret over the years. We wish to mourn the passing of our beloved son in private and will communicate the funeral and other arrangements in due course.” Ngwenya was Durban’s first democratically elected mayor from 1994 to 1996 and also the first chairperson of the KwaZulu-Natal Local Government Association. He died on Sunday, March 7, of lung complications. Ngwenya was honoured with an official city funeral which was held at St Faith’s Anglican Church last Thursday. IFP councillor Sbani Mdletshe was gunned down in Mandeni, north of Durban, on March 5 as he was about to enter a supermarket. He was elected as councillor in 2016. Mdletshe was buried yesterday. Inkosi Dlamini, 52, had been sick for a while after having suffered a stroke, before his death on Friday March 5, 2021. Dlamini is expected to be buried on Thursday. Years ago he applied at the Nhlapho Commission for his chieftancy to be elevated to that of a kingship. (Additional Reporting by Samkelo Mtshali) thobeka.ngema@inl.co.za Daily News