Durban -  The eThekwini Municipality has started the process of filling the position of deputy city manager in the finance cluster following the retirement of former CFO Krish Kumar last month. The position for deputy city manager in the finance cluster is a five-year fixed term performance-based contract and the successful candidate would have to disclose financial interests and undergo security clearance. The position advertised in the weekend papers outlined some of the key responsibilities in the role to include supporting the accounting officer with preparation of multi-year revenue and expenditure forecasts and advise on the impact thereof. It says responsibility areas also include overseeing the implementation and monitoring delegations of supply chain management in line with regulations. Overall, the holder of the position was expected to provide strategic leadership and direction for the finance cluster in the functional areas of supply chain management, city fleet, real estate, revenue management, expenditure, internal control and business systems and finance. IFP councillor Mdu Nkosi said having someone who was transparent in the position was important. “We need someone who will not be selfish and only think of themselves in the time they are employed by the city. We need a DCM of finance who take decisions very carefully remembering that they will be managing the city’s purse,” said Nkosi. He said it was also critical that the chosen candidate made sure that the purse would not run dry. “We need someone who will ensure that one day we will not be in a predicament where we are overwhelmed by loans. We are currently paying a billion to service loans. That's a lot of money so looking into the future you can tell that the situation in eThekwini in a couple of years would be very bad,” he said. Nkosi said that the right person needed to be someone who did not take decisions to please certain people. DA caucus leader Nicole Graham said it was important for the chosen candidate to have a strong sense of ethics. “With so much resting on the shoulders of this particular DCM unshakable ethics for me would be absolutely critical for the person not to be easily swayed and is very principled and ethical”. anelisa.kubheka@inl.co.za Daily News