DURBAN - Criminals are not afraid of shooting their way in and out of a robbery, said a private security company owner after a shoot-out in Phoenix where one of the robbers died. Two others will appear in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday,  on charges of attempted murder, possession of illegal firearms and ammunition. The victim of the burglary, who declined to be named, said she was unaware the men had watched her leave home on Monday afternoon. Minutes later her neighbours phoned to notify her there was a break-in and shoot-out between the robbers and police. The victim said the robbers broke the kitchen door that activated the alarm. They ransacked the house and loaded the items into their getaway car; a Hyundai Accent. Nobody was at home but she was still in shock. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said police noticed the vehicle parked outside the house on Whetfern Road with the rear doors open. “Police saw a man coming out of the yard carrying something in his hand. The police tried to stop the suspect. He got into the car. Other suspects were seated in the car. There was a shoot-out. The suspects fled towards Bhambayi in Inanda and a chase ensued. The suspect’s vehicle crashed into an embankment. They got off the vehicle and fled while firing shots at the police,” Mbele said. Mbele said a 25-year-old suspect was placed under arrest. Three others fled. Two illegal firearms with 23 rounds of ammunition were found on the scene. A second suspect was later arrested following an investigation by Phoenix police. Private security company KZN VIP Unit director Glen Naidoo said the vehicle used in the robbery and all the stolen items were recovered. “It was an intense gun battle. These cops definitely need to be commended for not backing down and fighting fire with fire and still coming out alive and unscathed. Let this serve as a warning to criminals. You come into Phoenix with guns you will leave in a body bag. “We have seen a trend and crime pattern in Durban North where criminals are fully prepared to shoot it out.  They are dangerous and come in numbers to commit a crime. We hope this brings to an end this syndicate,” Naidoo said. Phoenix Community Policing Forum chairperson Umesh Singh said robberies were frequent in the area. “There are too many guns on the street. Criminals are not afraid to use them. We are not sure if it’s out of desperation but we noticed that robbers are more violent. Residents must not take the law into their own hands. Do not confront them. Residents must not risk their lives. You cannot be certain what weapons they are carrying.” zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News