Durban - MESSAGES of condolences have poured in for a stalwart in the corporate fraternity and another in the political sphere in KwaZulu-Natal. Absa Group deputy chief executive Peter Matlare died after a battle with Covid-19 on Sunday. At the time of his death, he was responsible for operations outside South Africa for Absa. Matlare’s family said in a statement: “Peter was a consummate professional who made an immense contribution to business in South Africa and across the African continent. He was passionate about transforming businesses and believed deeply in the potential of Africa. “He also created opportunities for dozens of young managers and professionals to expand their horizons in the businesses he led.” Chief executive and chairperson of the Videovision Entertainment Group, Anant Singh, said he met Matlare during the privatisation process of state-owned radio stations in 1996. “Matlare went on to become one of the pioneering executives in the media industry. He was friendly and smart. We had the privilege of working with him when he was the CEO of Primedia Broadcasting and the SABC,” he said. Singh said Matlare’s career trajectory saw him occupy key executive roles in some of South Africa’s leading companies including Vodacom, Tiger Brands and Absa. “He was one of the finest corporate executives South Africa has produced and was deeply committed to transformation. We send sincere condolences to his wife, Nomvula, and his children. May his soul rest in peace,” Singh said. Acting Minister in the Presidency Khumbudzo Ntshavheni said Matlare contributed immensely to the economic development of South Africa in various roles in both the public and private sectors. “His passing is a great loss to South Africa when the nation is confronted with the task of rebuilding an inclusive post-Covid-19 economy that requires seasoned and experienced leaders across the society,” Ntshavheni said. “Matlare has left behind a solid foundation for us to build on in our pursuit of economic development.” Sipho Ngwenya, the first democratically elected mayor of Durban, also died on Sunday. Ngwenya was the first mayor of the then City of Durban, now eThekwini Municipality, from 1994 to 1996 and also the first chairperson of the KwaZulu-Natal Local Government Association. Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda said Ngwenya was a visionary and a remarkable leader who laid a solid foundation for the municipality. “We stand on the shoulders of the giants and we will continue to build on the solid foundation laid by Ngwenya during his tenure as the mayor,” Kaunda said. Family spokesperson Thobile Ngwenya said he had died of lung complications. She described him as a dedicated family man who cared for his community. “He will always be the tree of the family, that family man that had love for not just his family but fellow South Africans. I think it is still unreal, he was still active with Amakhosi, your traditional leaders in the province,” Ngwenya told the SABC.