Durban - THREE weeks into schools being reopening, unions are concerned over a shortage of teachers with the National Teachers’ Union (Natu) arguing that schools were not ready to open. There were some schools without any teachers in the classroom. Both the National Professional Teachers' Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa) and the South African Democratic Teachers' Union (Sadtu) expressed concern about this. Sadtu provincial secretary Nomarashiya Caluza said while learning and teaching was taking place, it was not effective due to a shortage of teachers. “For two weeks we have been fighting this with the Department of Education,” she said. Naptosa spokesperson Therona Moodley said staffing at schools was a concern. “Not all classes have teachers. This is unacceptable as the opening of schools for pupils was postponed giving the department more than enough time to adequately staff schools,” said Moodley. She said concerns over the delivery of personal protective equipment (PPE) had been remedied while there had been no movement on concerns over teachers with comorbidities. “The department had promised a circular more than three weeks ago, however there seems to be little interest in providing guidance to these teachers. The province must give details to the national circular allowing teachers with comorbidities to apply for a concession.” Natu general secretary Cynthia Barnes said some schools, especially those in rural areas, were not ready to open. “On Friday, we had a school in Sokhulu (Richards Bay) where mobile toilets were only arriving, this was after I got into contact with the district manager pleading for these. Even the ones that were delivered on Friday are not in a good condition, with wires used to hold some parts together,” said Barnes. She said in the first week of schools opening, pupils at Emthengeni High School in Mandeni rioted after waiting for mobile classrooms that were promised to assist with social distancing. In a video of this riot, a tyre is seen burning, with pupils, some carrying sticks, protesting and at one point in the footage two empty JoJo tanks are rolled toward the burning tyre and thrown on to it. Barnes said the department had at some schools failed to meet the non-negotiables that were agreed on in line with Covid-19 regulations including the supplying of PPE. Provincial Education spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa confirmed that police had to be called to Emthengeni High School and added that a task team was formed to address the matter of mobile classrooms. “The municipality was also called to a stakeholders meeting that was held during the riot. There are some schools that are in communities that have water problems. Municipalities also must play a role, the department will in some instances intervene to help.” He said they noted the shortage of teachers raised by the unions. “We would not deliberately allow children to be in class without teachers. It was just the national budget. We just had the State Of The Province Address. A budget is yet to be tabled and working with Treasury on a budget allocated for the year, we will be able to see how much can go towards filling posts. With every step we take we need to be sober.” Daily News  