SINENHLANHLA ZUNGU DURBAN - THE Mangosuthu University of Technology (MUT) has found common ground with the student representative council (SRC). The two parties were in a meeting at the weekend regarding the students’ demands. According to MUT SRC president Mthokozisi Gumede: “We have decided to retreat from striking and met with the management to find common ground. The university has agreed to clear students who are in debt, who were previously funded by either the National Students Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) or any other bursaries.” “Students who are also in arrears with the university will also be now able to access their academic records and get their completion letters,” said Gumede. The MUT students had demanded the university clear registration fees and historical debt. The MUT student, who was arrested last week, was released on R1 000 bail after appearing in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on April 9, and will appear again on April 14. The National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) were still in a meeting on Monday regarding MUT staff complaints. Meanwhile, the Durban University of Technology (DUT) has suspended SRC president and DUT EFF student command chairperson Zabelo Ntuli. Ntuli was issued with a precautionary suspension letter issued by the institution, which prohibited Ntuli from entering any of the DUT campuses. The letter read as follows: “In terms of Rule SR3 (2) of the DUT Student Code of Conduct as contained in the 2021 General Handbook for Students, you are hereby provisionally suspended as a student of the university with immediate effect. “You are prohibited from participating in any student academic and/or non-academic activity pending the investigation of serious misconduct of alleged violent threats that you made during the media briefing, inciting violence and bringing the name of the university into disrepute,” read the letter. Online learning and registration would continue at DUT for both first time applicants and returning students until April 16, as noted by senior director of corporate affairs Alan Khan, last Friday. Online learning for first-time enrolling students began yesterday. Returning students began their online learning on March 29. sinenhlanhla.zungu@inl.co.za Daily News