DURBAN - MONDAY was a week since a KwaDabeka family reported their daughter missing and on Thursday it will be a week since her body was discovered. DA Durban West Constituency chairperson Mzamo Billy said the family were heartbroken as the person they suspected of her murder was still roaming the streets. “We ask for calmness in the community and that they allow police to continue the investigation. These types of crimes are widespread and that is why we will be monitoring the situation to ensure they find closure.” Nkosingiphile Mazibuko’s body was discovered cut in half in KwaDabeka on April 1. The 27-year-old was reported missing to police by her family on March 29 after someone known to them told them she was missing. Later that day, he allegedly told the family she had been stabbed in Clermont. However, the family said he could not give a straight answer when asked who had told him this. They said a day after this they saw the man they suspected about to board a vehicle fleeing the area. They alleged that when they approached his home and saw him carrying clothes, he ditched these when he saw them and jumped into the vehicle, which sped off. The family said that among these clothes were his T-shirt and jeans covered in blood as well as Nkosingiphile’s bloodied jeans, which were handed over to police. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said the matter was still under investigation with no arrests made. Meanwhile, police are appealing for the public’s help in locating a wanted suspect alleged to have raped a 15-year-old in Eshowe. Mbele said a warrant of arrest had been issued for 39-year-old Simphiwe Dube from the KwaMfana area in Eshowe. “It is alleged that on January 17, the suspect raped a 15-year-old child at Eshowe. He fled and has been on the run since then. A case of rape was opened at Eshowe police station and the docket was transferred to the Eshowe FCS [Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences] Unit for further investigation. We appeal to anyone who may know of his whereabouts to contact Detective Constable Halalisani Khanyile on 082 211 7469 /035 474 4211/15 or Crime Stop 08600 10111,” she said. Mbele said the police’s plea came at a time when detectives from the KwaZulu-Natal FSC Unit reflected on the 326 arrests they made in March. She said the arrests were as a result of various operations in the period where suspects were arrested for crimes including rape, attempted rape, sexually assault, kidnapping, child abandonment and assault with intent to cause grievously bodily harm. “The detectives’ work led to 20 convictions, which includes four life sentences and 116 years.” anelisa.kubheka@inl.co.za Daily News