DURBAN - A DURBAN metro officer with the Multi Operational Response Team (Mort) was granted bail on Monday in the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court. He faces charges of attempted murder and kidnapping of a 13-year-old boy. The constable, 33, appeared in court following his arrest on Sunday, on allegations that he assaulted and forced the child to drink petrol because he suspected the child of stealing in Savannah Park. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed their investigation and the officer’s arrest. National Prosecuting Authority regional spokesperson Natasha Kara said the policeman was granted bail of R2 000, with conditions that he was not allowed to interfere or communicate with victims and witnesses. “The matter was adjourned to May 24 for further investigations.” The officer was not named, to protect the identity of the minor victim. Head of Durban metro, police commissioner Steve Middleton, said he became aware of the matter last week and immediately instituted an internal investigation. He said the officer had been issued with a signed letter of suspension last week. Outside court on Monday, a few members of the community sat with placards reading “Hands off the accused”, “Justice for the accused”, and called for police to ask the community what really happened. Nkanyiso Mthembu, chairperson of the ward committee in Savannah Park, said they were there in support of the officer who, he said, had been wrongfully accused. “We have a history in the community with children from this family. There are cases that have been opened with police, even the community policing forum in the area is aware of the problems they have caused. “Now this man has been suspended and could possibly lose his job over something we know did not happen like how it was reported in the media.” In a statement last week, the Department of Social Development condemned the alleged assault of two boys, aged 13 and 16, with special needs. According to the department, it was alleged that the officer pointed his service pistol at the boys, forced them to admit they broke into his home, and forced them to drink petrol. Mthembu claimed he knew of the events that transpired on the day and said media reports were untrue. “We want justice for the officer.” anelisa.kubheka@inl.co.za Daily News