DURBAN - DESPITE the SAPS air wing being allocated a budget of R68 million for maintenance of aircraft, only 15 are operational. The SAPS have 34 aircraft. Minister of Police Bheki Cele replied to a parliamentary question posed by DA MP Annette Steyn, that 17 aircraft were undergoing mandatory periodic inspection. Two aircraft were grounded for investigation after a crash and a hard landing. The SAPS employed 54 pilots and 309 support staff in the air wing. Cele said the 2020/21 budget for the air wing was R86.7m and the total 2020/21 budget for maintenance of aircraft is R68.7m. The Durban, Bulembu, Port Elizabeth, Potchefstroom and Cape Town air wings have two aircraft each. The National Heliport in Pretoria has three helicopters. Gauteng’s Wonderboom air wing has two helicopters and eight planes. The Johannesburg air wing has one helicopter and a plane. Bloemfontein and Polokwane air wings have two helicopters and one plane each. Nelspruit has one helicopter. Kimberley has one helicopter and a plane. The SAPS air wing plays an integral role in providing air support to police officers on the ground. The SAPS website stated that the air wing provided air support for crime-related matters to police stations, other units and specialised forces. A SAPS air wing Squirrel helicopter crash-landed at Virginia Airport during a training exercise in August 2019. A helicopter from the Durban SAPS air wing crashed near the Drakensberg mountains in January 2018. No one was injured in either crashes. Institute for Security Studies researcher Johan Burger said police air wings world-wide played a crucial role in crime-fighting. “It is normal practice in agencies across the world. No police service can do without it,” he said. Burger said air wings were versatile. “They are capable of moving tactical teams from one place to another in the shortest period. Not having the full resources to take advantage of their capabilities is detrimental to policing. The fight against crime is weakened,” he said. Burger said air wings were a morale booster for ground units. “Whether fixed-wing aircraft or rotary, the fact is you have eyes and ears in the air. Helicopters are a huge advantage to people on the ground. They are quick support. “They can be called on at any stage. The fact that they are not available increases risk to police on the ground. It makes their task more difficult.” He said it was a shame that the SAPS was in this situation. “The air wing lost most of its capabilities because of poor management, something that requires looking into.” zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News