SINEHLANHLA ZUNGU Durban - ROSSBURGH High School in Seaview has created a water feature garden in remembrance of those who had died from Covid-19. The school built a memorial pond aptly called Siyabakhumbula, We Remember You, which started in a vacant corner of a garden in July 2020. “The idea of transforming an under-utilised space into an attractive outdoor centre-piece was necessitated by the arrival of the Covid pandemic, and the spirit, dedication and courage shown by pupils, parents, teachers, workers and the general public in embracing life under abnormal circumstances, “ read a media statement the school released. The garden was a story of hope, faith and love, as the school had lost two teachers to the coronavirus pandemic. The school had 11 other reported cases of teachers affected. All 11 teachers recovered fully and no pupils were affected.  The Siyabakhumbula project intended to create a space where both teachers and pupils can interact in harmony, while also mourning the loss of hundreds of teachers nationwide and honouring the unwavering commitment of essential workers, who risk their lives daily to help South African communities at large. Deputy principal Odette Mkhize, who has been with the school for more than 20 years, expressed her grief at the loss of her former colleagues. She was close to one of the colleagues who died. “Mr Nico du Toit was part of the staff that had served the school for a very long time. He was at school all the time. It is sad that he is no more. He died in December 2020. He knew about the project, but did not live to see it polished.” It took three gardeners - Sifundo Nsibande, Simo Mhlongo and Simlindile Ntushato - to turn a picture of a garden into a tangible garden with a pond. “Working on the garden was not easy, especially because much of the workload involved carrying rocks. However, I am very happy with the outcome,” said Nsibande. The school project was predominantly implemented by utilising readily available, re-purposed materials. The pond is self-sustainable because it is fed by natural precipitation and borehole water. Each fish in the pond represents a person known to the school whose life was lost to Covid-19. Speaking about the Siyabakhumbula project, SA Democratic Teachers Union provincial secretary Nomarashiya Caluza said: “A garden full of life, indeed the school has found a very inspirational way of remembering our departed teachers, and they will forever be in our hearts.” Daily News 