SINENHLAHNHLA ZUNGU DURBAN - THE daughter of well-known Durban businessman Moses Tembe was confirmed dead in Cape Town on Sunday morning. Tembe is the director of the International Conference Centre, co-chairman of the KZN Growth Coalition, and the director of the Mazibuye Foundation. Anele “Nellie” Tembe, 22, fiancée of popular rapper AKA, real name Kiernan Forbes, died after she allegedly jumped from the tenth floor of the Pepperclub Hotel, in Cape Town’s city centre. The rapper had been scheduled to perform at the Ayepyep Lifestyle Lounge on Saturday night. The hotel’s general manager Efi Ella told media that police were investigating “an incident” involving a 22-year-old girl that was reported at around 7.30am on Sunday to the hotel and the police were called to the scene. Western Cape SAPS spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk said: “Cape Town Central police are investigating an inquest case after an incident at a hotel this morning, at about 7.45am, on the corners of Loop and Bloem Street, in the Cape Town CBD, where the body of a 22-year-old woman was found deceased.” Van Wyk said crime-scene experts were looking for clues at the hotel. Netcare 911 spokesperson Shawn Herbst said paramedics had responded to a fall outside a hotel in the Cape Town city centre. “Reports from the scene indicate that a 22-year-old female had allegedly jumped from the tenth floor, landing on the road below. “Medics assessed the patient who had sustained critical injuries and was treated on scene by an advanced life support paramedic. While stabilising the patient, her condition rapidly deteriorated and she was sadly declared deceased on the scene,” Herbst said. Just last month AKA confirmed that he had proposed to Tembe and had paid lobola. The couple made their engagement announcement on Instagram in March when AKA posted  “21/02/21 – love of my life said Yesssss”. The Tembe and Forbes families confirmed the death in a joint statement, citing that AKA was reportedly inconsolable, and surrounded by friends and family. “It is with the deepest regret that we, the Tembe and Forbes families, confirm the untimely passing of our beloved fiancée, daughter, sister and daughter-in-law, Anele Tembe, 22. Anele tragically passed on in the early hours of this morning, Sunday, April 11, 2021,” read the statement. “We are still in shock and are dealing with our emotions, as she was an exceptional and gifted young woman, with so much life ahead of her. She had a sweet nature about her and was always nurturing to those around her.” Reports that Tembe had previously tried to jump from the top floor of the Hilton Hotel in Durban in December last year could not be confirmed. Scores of fans and local celebrities took to Twitter to express their shock and share condolence messages. Lasizwe Dambuza said: “Just like that Nellie! NO WAYS!!!!!” while Cassper Nyovest said “No ways man. This is heavy.” Daily News