Durban - CLARE Estate residents have demanded that piles of uncollected domestic refuse be removed immediately from the suburb. Clare Estate Ratepayers Association (CERA) chairperson Navin Dookran said they have been liaising with the relevant departments to clean up the area. Dookran said they pleaded with the eThekwini Municipality to assist with regular uninterrupted collection of domestic waste. The worst affected road was Palmiet Road and Chiltern Drive. Heaps of bags were stacking up on the pavements. The road has three expanding informal settlements. Dookran urged the Durban Solid Waste department to provide an education programme for residents “so this mess can be eradicated soon”. “I have driven past this road, and it looks like a war zone. Something that every one of us is well aware of, protests. We are trying to avoid this from occurring if basic service delivery is not acted on,” Dookran said. Residents on the CERA community WhatsApp group said they loved their suburb and wanted service delivery on time just as how they paid rates on time. Residents said they were being ignored by the municipality which has allowed the infrastructure in the area to perish in the past decade. They were tired of living with refuse everywhere. We are ratepayers and have invested tremendously in our properties over the years. Sagar Singh, the PR Councillor for Clare Estate, said he did a clean-up with the relevant departments previously but people continued dumping. “The municipality is supposed to ensure a safe and healthy environment for the well being of its citizens. I’m wondering whether the municipality is waiting for a possible outbreak to emerge before action is taken to clean up the area,” a resident said. Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said DSW was operating under very abnormal circumstances that in certain instances impacts on the City’s ability to discharge its responsibilities in as far as refuse collection was concerned in certain areas. Mayisela said the municipality was clearing the backlog in areas that have been affected. He appealed to residents to bear with them in these turbulent times. “‘We are trying everything in our power to return the situation to normal. The city would like to apologise to all residents who are experiencing challenges with regard to refuse collection. The City is pulling out all the stops. We are in Level 1 of our lockdown. It is of paramount importance that our trucks and depots are deep cleaned to minimise chances for our employees and residents to be victims of Covid-19 feared third wave,” Mayisela said. Daily News