DURBAN - KWAZULU-NATAL premier Sihle Zikalala urged the country to go back to basics by following in the footsteps of Charlotte Maxeke and John Langalibalele Dube, to make education fashionable and create job opportunities. Zikalala spoke during Freedom Day celebrations at the historic site where Nelson Mandela cast his first vote in 1994 at Ohlange, north of Durban. This Freedom Day also coincided with the celebration of 150 years since the birth of Maxeke and Dube, the first president of the ANC. The celebrations reflected on the roles played by Maxeke and Dube in fighting colonialism and apartheid and in education. Zikalala said Dube symbolised freedom. However, opposition stakeholders in education said there was nothing to celebrate when the rate of unemployment was increasing every day and people were struggling to put food on the table – a situation further perpetuated by the looting of state funds and by the Covid-19 pandemic that has left many unemployed. Zikalala said South Africa had achieved a lot under the dispensation of freedom. He said contrary to many things said, South Africa enjoys equality, where people are free to express themselves and free to gather anywhere, saying that this would not have happened before 1994. “South African needy students have access to free education. We have seen the government providing support. We have no-fee schools where pupils are studying because of the liberation Struggle led by the ANC, whose first president was General Dube. “We are also mindful of the fact that job creation should be at the centre of everything we do as government and as the private sector, that is why we are working on the issue of creating jobs,” said Zikalala. He said there was a need to arm the younger generation with education and to follow in the footsteps of Maxeke and Dube. “Education must be made fashionable. Education must be supported. Dube started Ohlange Institute, which is still standing today and has contributed in moulding and producing a number of luminaries in the country and in the SADC region. “We are grateful for the strides that the democratic government under the leadership of the ANC have achieved so far, notwithstanding the shrinking budget that we have, but the investment in free education is not compromised, ” said Zikalala. DA spokesperson on education, Dr Imran Keeka, said the ANC had perpetuated the education system that creates unemployment instead of creating jobs at the end of the schooling system. The Educators’ Union of South Africa (Eusa) said freedom was being threatened by rising unemployment, poverty and inequality. Eusa spokesperson Simphiwe Mpungose said there was nothing to celebrate when public funds were looted and people could not put food on the table, and teachers were deprived of their salary increases. “There is nothing to celebrate when our people remain victims of their own government that loots and protects its evil acts by captured judiciary,” said Mpungose. sne.masuku@inl.co.za Daily News