DURBAN - THE courts have been working hard to ensure punishment of those who have committed licensing fraud and corruption in KwaZulu-Natal. Bonginkosi Mtshali, 56, a magistrate from the Empangeni Magistrates Court, is expected to make his second court appearance on April 28 on driving licence fraud charges. “His next court appearance will be in Mpumalanga where he is expected to be joined by five other suspects,” said Simon Zwane, Road Traffic Management Corporation spokesperson. Mtshali had appeared in court on Friday on charges of conspiracy to commit fraud and defeating the ends of justice. He was arrested on Thursday following an investigation by the National Traffic Anti-Corruption Unit (NTACU) into the irregular manner in which he obtained his driving licence. Zwane said a magistrate and prosecutor from areas outside Empangeni were arranged to lead proceedings because Mtshali worked in the same court. He was granted R2 000 bail. “The arrest is a clear demonstration that no one is above the law and that NTACU investigates all allegations without fear or favour,” said Zwane. Over the past few months, a number of government officials have regularly appeared in the Durban Specialised Commercial Crimes Court for licensing fraud and corruption. Last week, Dumisani Nkala, Lindiwe Xulu, Meshack Ndlovu, Nkosinathi Zondi and Dumisani Phungula appeared in court where a social worker’s report was presented as part of sentencing procedures. “The matter was postponed to May 19 to hear evidence of aggravation and possible sentencing,” said Zwane. The five had fraudulently assisted scores of motor vehicle learner’s licence applicants to pass their tests. They were among 19 people arrested when the NTACU and the Hawks raided uMngeni Local Municipality in Howick in June 2018. They were found guilty of fraud in November 2020 after a lengthy trial. Their conviction followed fiveyear sentences handed down to 10 motor vehicle learner’s licence applicants in 2019. Driving licence examiner Skhumbuzo Mkhulise was found guilty and sentenced to four years’ imprisonment or a R10 000 fine in February last year. Last month, Roger Everton, the former head of traffic and licensing in KZN, pleaded guilty to multiple counts of fraud relating to the irregular and unlawful issuing of learner’s licences in Howick. Zwane said Everton would also be in court on the same date for judgment with the five co-accused. Everton faces 15 counts of fraud relating to allegations that he underhandedly assisted learner licence applicants to pass tests at the Umgeni licensing department. He was arrested by the NTACU and the Hawks in 2018. His arrest followed that of nine applicants and six officials – examiners and clerks at the licensing department – on the same allegations of fraud. They pleaded guilty in separate trials and were given suspended sentences. Thandazile Shelembe, an administration clerk, also pleaded guilty and was sentenced to a fine and given a suspended prison sentence. “A process has now been put in place to follow up on more than 500 identified individuals who benefited from the fraudulent activities of the officials,” said Zwane. Members of the public are called to report fraud and corruption involving the issuing of driving licences to ntacu@rtmc.co.za. WhatsApp messages can be sent to 083 293 7989. thobeka.ngema@inl.co.za Daily News