SINENHLANHLA ZUNGU DURBAN - THE country has a dire shortage of blood and unless people come forward and donate blood, the country may run out in a matter of days, the South African National Blood Services (SANBS) says. The Humanitarian, Environmental and Animal Liberation (HEAL) Foundation has partnered with the SANBS to address South Africa’s blood shortage. HEAL responded to SANBS’s appeal by recruiting blood donors. The foundation’s public relations officer Prathna Dudhrajh said the shortage was brought to their attention and they decided to partner with the SANBS to help them get more donors. “Nationally, we are three days short of blood supply and 3 000 units short,” said Neelashan Govender, donor relations practitioner at SANBS. Regional marketing manager Sifiso Khoza said they want to raise awareness about blood shortages, highlight and encourage people to donate blood in order to save lives and make it known that anyone can be in need of a blood donation. “Our national blood supply is currently at just 2.4 days of Group O stock, amounting to just over 2 113 units of O blood available around the country, while in KZN the blood supply is at 1.5 days of Group O,” said Khoza. He said many people in life-threatening situations require blood. Each person is encouraged to donate at least four times a year. “The situation is critical. We need South Africans – active donors, lapsed donors and potential donors – to come forward right now to bolster the national blood stock,” he said. “It is what saves that haemorrhaging mother’s life, so that she can raise and love the baby she has just brought into the world. It is what saves someone suffering complications during major surgery. It is what helps that cancer patient endure and survive treatment,” said Khoza. The two organisations will be hosting a blood drive initiative on Sunday at the Chatsworth shopping centre from 9am until 4pm. There will be prizes up for grabs. Each donor will be entered into a raffle and stand a chance to win either tokens or vouchers. sinenhlanhla.zungu@inl.co.za Daily News