SINENHLANHLA ZUNGU Durban - Pietermaritzburg-born Zamani Bhengu, 28, is the founder and CEO of AmaBhengu Fashion watches. He came from humble beginnings and has always known that he was destined for success. At the tender age of four, Bhengu lost his father and was raised by his mother Ntombiza Bhengu. Life was not easy but the world of endless possibilities is a reality for Bhengu. He graduated from Umgungundlovu FET College, where he received a financial management diploma and specialised in entrepreneurship and business management, and knew it was the time to make something great out of his studies and life. He started his entrepreneurial journey on the streets of Pietermaritzburg. There, he sold several imported brand watches. Once he had established connections and knew enough about watches, he then partnered with international brands, designers and assemblers to establish his very own watch brand AmaBhengu Fashion. “I realised that a lot of people wear dysfunctional watches because they are too busy and or lazy to replace batteries. Right there, the idea of bringing exquisite watches that do not run on batteries came to mind,” he said. AmaBhengu Fashion watches are mechanical watches, that is they do not run on batteries. Instead, the watches function with gears and a main string which is winded periodically. Bhengu says that AmaBhengu watches are made from quality materials, the crystal is mineral, water resistant and the hands are luminous. Entrepreneurship is far from easy. Bhengu told the Daily News about the hardships he faced. Other than the grits of working alone, he went through a series of rejections. He knocked on numerous doors seeking mentorship and collaboration but it did not yield a positive result. “I knew from the start that my journey would not be easy and so I was ready for storms. I even burnt all the bridges behind me. From the very beginning of my journey, selling on the streets, nothing really was of ease.” Bhengu self-funded his business from the get-go. He went without food and clothes as he tried to put his business on the map. Giving up was not an option for him. His determination to succeed, business scaling as well as his journey touched Bheki Madide, managing director of Ukhozi Tracker. Madide helped Bhengu create a business website by registering his domain www.amabhengu.co.za. He also taught Bhengu a few things about website creation. Bhengu also uses his website as a channel to sell his watches online. “Madide gave me my break because ever since my website was operational my business went from strength to strength.” “I met Zamani on Facebook from a common group. I could see his potential and I could also see some of my dreams finding a space in his life,” said Madide. “I told him that I can buy him a domain and give him unlimited space for hosting on the server I use for my clients. I opted to help him with basic WordPress and a chosen theme. Our business has since been mutually beneficial,” he said. Bhengu works hand-in-hand with a dedicated team of watch designers and assemblers. “Apart from the operations team, I'm very happy with my marketing and compliance team. Without them we wouldn't be here. The spirit of workaholics is the only answer to small business and to people of colour because we still have a long way to go,” said Bhengu. “My watches are for dappers and dandies who know and have good taste. We all know that your drip isn't completed without exquisite accessories such as a watch,” said Bhengu. AmaBhengu Fashion watches was officially launched in March 2021 on its social media platforms. Bhengu hopes to one day collaborate with South African house DJ Mthokozisi ‘Tira’ Khathi because of his great taste in watches. In his collection, Bhengu’s favourite is the Automatic Watch Z1 Gold watch. He advises aspiring entrepreneurs to be always willing to start small and trust the process. Bhengu is passionate about the e-commerce and retail industry. He is also working on starting his own health and wellness brand and will supply 100% organic health products. sinenhlanhla.zungu@inl.co.za Daily News