DURBAN - KWAZULU-NATAL peace monitor Mary de Haas, who is expected to be honoured next week at the Rhodes University’s virtual graduation ceremony, said she felt happy for her children when this news finally sank in. The institution will confer on her a degree of Doctor of Laws (LLD) (honoris causa) in recognition of her interventionist work on violence and human rights abuse in the province. She said when the institution’s vice-chancellor called to tell her, she was flabbergasted. “I couldn’t believe my ears. I also felt very happy for my children because, especially in the ’90s, there were lots of upheavals in the lives of those still at home – late meals, people needing accommodating, lots of meetings at our home. And, of course, before cellphones were introduced, the phone line was blocked when my children needed to talk to their friends, with me on the line with people under threat, and possibly about to be shot,” said De Haas. She remembered when her husband died, in early 1994, she had taken a term off to finish her PhD, but never touched it because of the violence in the province. “It had escalated to such an extent that I spent every available moment dealing with it and with an army of journalists (especially from overseas), and diplomats, who wanted to know what was going on.” Since the mid-1980s, De Haas has been involved in research into, and documentation of, political violence in KwaZulu-Natal and has produced regular summaries of this violence, known as the Natal (now KZN) Monitor (www.violencemonitor.com). More recently, her violence monitoring activities have included interventionist human rights work, directed at improving the criminal justice system. Between 1995 and 2005, funding from Norwegian People’s Aid allowed her to work closely with lawyers on human rights matters, including constitutional issues. She has been affiliated with FrontLine Defenders, an international network of human rights defenders, since its inception in 2001. Rhodes vice-chancellor Dr Sizwe Mabizela said De Haas’s unflinching commitment to the plight of the poor, women and children, in impoverished parts of KwaZulu-Natal, has been a source of hope for many. “De Haas has never been afraid to speak truth to power and lend her voice to those rendered voiceless, by the powerful and mighty. A highly respected authority on political violence in KwaZulu-Natal, she has made significant contributions in exposing those responsible for fomenting violence in the province – at a huge personal risk and significant personal cost,” said Mabizela. De Haas also served on the Research Committee on Farm Violence, appointed by the minister of Safety and Security in the early 2000s, and wrote a large section of the report. anelisa.kubheka@inl.co.za Daily News