SINENHLANHLA ZUNGU DURBAN - EAST Coast Radio on Tuesday honoured those who lost their lives to the Covid-19 pandemic by releasing 71 white pigeons outside the radio station in uMhlanga. “The pandemic has arrived here uninvited and has taken so many of our loved ones. It has completely disrupted our lives. We are here today to remember all those people close to us that this virus has taken and to also send love to those who have lost someone,” said ECR’s radio host Carol Ofori. On air, Ofori spoke to Joy Conway, who lost her husband Mark Conway to the pandemic. He was pronounced dead on January 3. He had over 200 pigeons and was also a member of the Durban North Pigeons Racing Club. “I never saw death coming. It is still surreal to me. Mark looked okay to me and I thought that he would soon recover and we will travel just like we had always planned,” said Conway. The couple have two daughters and a son. Conway is now part of a church programme that seeks to bring peace and comfort to people who have experienced trauma. She also reached out to a psychologist and has had three sessions to help her cope and make peace with her husband’s death. During this event, ECR was live on Facebook. There were some of the comments: “Remembering my dear friend Vincent Ramnarain who passed away due to Covid-19 on May 13, 2020. Miss you every day,” said Charmaine Lee. “To the Hawkey family, in memory of aunty Desiree and uncle Henry, may you all find peace,” said Pearl van der Merwe. “To my mom who passed away on September 29, 2020 and her sister who passed away on January 1, 2021,  may their souls rest in peace. I will always love and miss them,” said Philiswa Dlamini Masibalkhulu. Deon Boucher is a pigeon fancier whose white pigeons were released at the event. “I am so honoured to be part of this momentous occasion which is for a good cause. Not to only honour those who lost their lives in Durban or KwaZulu-Natal, but also on a global scale,” said Boucher. “This was a significant event, honouring all those who lost their lives to the coronavirus. It goes to show we care and acknowledge those who suffered the misfortune of losing their loved ones,” said Lwazi Mdlolo, an ECR technical support specialist. According to the Department of Health, there have been 53 757 confirmed Covid-19 deaths in the country to date. From 1 567 513 total cases, 1 490 876 people have made full recoveries. A total of 335 779 people were reported to be infected in the province and about 292 623 health care workers in the country have been vaccinated. sinenhlanhla.zungu@inl.co.za Daily News