DURBAN - PLASTIC bag manufacturers have been warned that plastic carrier bags and plastic flat bags must be made from a minimum of 50% post-consumer recyclate, from January 1, 2023. Amendments to South Africa’s Plastic Carrier Bags and Plastic Flat Bags Regulations have been published in the Government Gazette for implementation. In terms of the amendment, any person who contravenes the regulations could face a fine not exceeding R5 million or five years’ imprisonment. In the case of a second or subsequent conviction, the person could be imprisoned for up to 10 years or face a R10m fine. “The amendments emanate from the review of all policies affecting plastic bags in the country. This included inputs from stakeholders, directly and indirectly affected by policies relating to plastic bags, and their management at a post-consumer stage,” said the Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment. The department said the amendments focussed on promoting a circular economy and ensuring circularity by prescribing the design, through setting minimum recycled content in a phased manner, starting in 2023 and continuing until 2027. “The recycled content or ‘postconsumer recyclate’ material is used in the manufacturing process, informed by input material arising from waste generated by households or by commercial, industrial and institutional facilities. “These amendments are enhancing the demand-side of waste management and would secure the necessary demand to drive the diversion of plastic waste from landfill,” it added. The department explained that “post-consumer recyclate” refers to material generated by households or commercial, industrial or institutional facilities, in their role as end-users of the product, which can no longer be used for its intended purpose. In terms of the prohibition, the amendment prohibits the manufacture, trade or commercial distribution of domestically produced or imported plastic carrier bags and plastic flat bags, for use in South Africa, other than those which comply with the compulsory specification for plastic carrier bags and flat bags. The department stated that plastic bags must be made from 75% recycled materials from the start of 2025, and must comprise 100% post-consumer recyclate from January 1, 2027. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News