DURBAN - THE Pietermaritzburg woman who laid a charge of assault against Imbewu, the Seed actress Phindile Gwala has reached an out-of-court settlement with the actress and dropped the charges. Gwala was facing a charge of assault for allegedly attacking Nompilo Mkhize outside the Cubana restaurant in Pietermaritzburg at the weekend. Gwala had accused Mkhize of taking a video of her with her cellphone. Gwala allegedly assaulted her and damaged her phone in front of people outside the restaurant. Mkhize took to social media,y posting pictures of her injured face and damaged cellphone. She received support and sympathy from people who gave her different advice on how to get justice. Despite being injured and humiliated in public, Mkhize said she was worried about not attending her online lectures because her phone was damaged. She told the Daily News on Wednesday that all she wanted was an apology and for Gwala to buy her a new phone for her lectures. “We met and discussed the issue. She apologised for her behaviour. She also bought me a new phone, the same phone as the one she damaged. I did not want her to get arrested. I was also not ready for the trauma of going to court and the drama involved in pursuing this case. I wanted to continue with my studies in peace. I now have a phone and an apology,” she said. Gwala issued a statement on Wednesday saying she and Mkhize had reached an understanding and appreciated the “constructive guidance” from the public on the matter. She said despite the hurt and high emotions which ensued after the incident, the spirit of ubuntu prevailed and brought them together. “Without dwelling much on the legal issue, I do wish to point out that this prevailing spirit of ubuntu has resulted in both of us withdrawing cases that we had opened against each other. Indeed, a new chapter has been opened. I believe that with the support of the people of this country we will put the past behind us,” said Gwala. Mkhize said she was advised to drop the case and refrain from commenting about it on social media now that they had reached a solution. “I want to continue to respond to messages on Facebook and post updates, but I have been advised not to. I appreciate the support I received from everyone who was touched by my story and the advice I got from people who did not even know me. “I am relieved that she has replaced my phone and apologised. I am going to be able to attend online classes now and I can now move on with my life and my studies,” Mkhize said. sne.masuku@inl.co.za Daily News