DURBAN – It was a dry Freedom Day for some residents in Reservoir Hills due to burst pipes cutting off the water supply. Residents of Reservoir Hills, Annet Drive and Shannon Drive have had no water since Sunday. And Bologna Avenue and surrounding roads have not had any power since Monday morning. One resident, Dr Gopal Sanpersad, said it seemed the municipality has forgotten its obligation to ratepayers to provide essential services. Sanpersad said it was a sad indictment on how the municipality treats citizens who contribute to the upkeep of the city. Sanpersad said for at least 2 months, the water supply has been erratic and unpredictable. He said he did not know who to blame when essential services like water were compromised repeatedly. He said it was probably due to the contractors laying fibre cables in the area, or just aged and failing infrastructure. “The municipality does not provide tankers and, when they do, it is not announced. Mainly the elderly are at home, so how do they fetch the water? The municipality and councillor have failed to address the needs of this community, with roads in a poor state, non-existent street lighting, water leaks and basically deteriorating infrastructure,” Sanpersad said. Reservoir Hills Ratepayers’ Association chairperson Ish Prahladh laid the blame solely on contractors digging up sidewalks and the road to lay fibre optic cables. Prahladh claimed that the contractors were not qualified and did not have the layout of the underground water pipe and electricity cable network. “The contractors are supposed to have a standby electrician and plumber. There is no win-win situation. The contractors did not pitch up for a meeting we scheduled. They change supervisors continuously. Nobody takes ownership of the problem. Our rates are still escalating,” he said. DA Reservoir Hills PR Councillor Sagar Singh said there was no response from the electricity department. He claimed call centre phones went unanswered. He said continuous service delivery failure in Reservoir Hills has resulted in some residents planning to protest, like those in informal settlements. Singh said it took plumbers more than a day to replace a valve in Shannon Drive. Singh said concerned residents had banded together and begun supplying bottled water to residents. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News