DURBAN - THE body of former rugby player Lindani Myeni is expected to arrive home on Friday for burial in his hometown of Esikhaleni near Richards Bay. Family spokesperson Nonhlanhla Myeni said a press conference would be held on Thursday at the Union Buildings in Pretoria ahead of the body’s arrival. She said only family members would be allowed at the event to receive the body. “Once we are home, we prefer not to be interrupted, hence there will be a press conference.” Myeni was shot dead earlier this month by police in Hawaii, in the US, who had allegedly mistaken him for a burglary suspect. The 29-year-old former KwaZulu-Natal rugby player was apparently unarmed at the time of his shooting. His wife Lindsay and their two children had been waiting for Myeni to return home after going for a drive to clear his head. She was informed of his death hours later. Police alleged that Myeni entered a home in the Nuuanu area, exhibiting strange behaviour. He allegedly took off his shoes and spoke to the homeowners, who were upset and called the police. According to Premier Sihle Zikalala, the Miami authorities had handed over Myeni’s body to his wife and it was expected to arrive at the OR Tambo International Airport on Friday. Funeral arrangements were expected to be announced once the body had arrived. Many described Myeni’s death as yet another case of racial discrimination against black people in the US. The family believe Myeni was targeted and do not believe the police, who claimed he was violent and they had fought for their lives. Lindsay had, since her husband’s death, communicated her grief about the murder via social media. She had revealed the way in which Myeni was treated by the US society and even their own neighbours, because he was black. She had also expressed appreciation for the support that her friends, ordinary people in South Africa and political organisations which had provided from day one. This week she wrote: “Lindani would be stunned that the EFF and the ANC are writing about him now. This is just the beginning. The world will never be the same again.” She also called on the US government to release the 911 tapes, that she believed would shed some more light on what happened on the night that her husband was shot and killed. sne.masuku@inl.co.za Daily News