DURBAN - IT HAS been two years since a Hammarsdale man wanted for the rape of two Inchanga children and linked through his DNA to six other rapes has been on the run. A recent lead, which police hoped would break the case, has turned cold. In 2019 police asked for the public’s assistance and released Zwelithini Zuma’s picture, wanting those with information on his whereabouts to come forward. This was after Zuma had failed to appear before the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court for the alleged rape of a 9-year-old girl and a 10-year-old boy. A warrant of arrest was then issued. Zuma, a truck driver, in 2018 allegedly raped the two children at different places in Inchanga, less than an hour apart. He allegedly first raped a 10-year-old boy, who he dropped off in his truck near a house where he allegedly raped the 9-year-old girl in the presence of her 8-year-old friend. According to their relatives, the children both positively identified him as the “uncle in the truck”. When police released his picture, they also revealed that his DNA had been linked to six other rape cases, dating back to 2016 in Mariannhill, KwaNdengezi and Mpumalanga. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said the suspect was still being sought by police. “We are also appealing to anyone who might have information about the suspect to contact their local police or Crime Stop on 08600 10111”. While the rape victims awaited Zuma’s capture, closure came for a 19-year-old victim when her rapist was sentenced in the Ulundi Regional Court to 20 years’ imprisonment on Tuesday. Gwala said 40-year-old pastor Sibusiso Gerald Nyathikazi was sentenced for two counts of rape. “During 2018, the pastor lured the victim into his home and raped her. “He instructed her not to tell a soul about the whole ordeal since it was going to destroy his reputation as a pastor. The traumatised victim continued going to church as if nothing had happened. “The pastor, who was trusted to pray for the victim because she was not feeling well, raped the victim again while they were attending another church service in Wasbank in 2018,” Gwala said. The victim, tired of being silent, reported the incident to her family. “A case of rape was opened at Ulundi SAPS and the docket was transferred to the Ulundi Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit. “The accused was arrested and made several court appearances,” Gwala said. anelisa.kubheka@inl.co.za Daily News