DURBAN - THE water challenges at Ugu District Municipality show no signs of dissipating as numerous areas are still without water. Earlier this week, Ugu announced on its Facebook page that there was a burst pipe in the Margate Seaslopes area and there would be water service interruptions – much to the residents’ frustration. Ugu spokesperson France Zama said the water challenges were being addressed. He said this was not the first time there was a burst pipe in Margate and that the area had problems because of the ageing infrastructure and a high demand for water. Zama said they were trying to deal with the problems in the area. However, the DA said the challenge was more widespread than Ugu was letting on, as it had been going on for weeks. Zama said they have started a process of pipe replacement and also that Margate was going through a population explosion. Ugu were receiving assistance from the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs by being provided engineers. He said there was a master plan to rectify all the problems at Ugu, but the issue was funding. The Daily News has previously reported on how Ugu was under financial distress. Ugu has tried various means to raise revenue, including a steep hike of water rates. It was reported that due to the seemingly never-ending water woes, the DA had called for the district municipality to be put under administration and had reported the matter to not only the provincial government, but to international organisations such as Amnesty International and the UN. The DA’s spokesperson for the South Coast, George Henderson, said the water problems were extensive and that parts of Margate were without water for two weeks. He said there were areas in the northern parts of Ugu that were without water for four weeks. Things had come to the point where they were now considering taking Ugu to court to get it resolved. Olliver Ransome, chairperson of the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast Ratepayers and Resident Association, said the situation had been getting worse over the past five years. He said there was a brief period when things seemed to be getting better, but they became worse again. “People from the coast to the hinterland are angry,” he said. Ransome said the coast was the economic engine of Ugu, and tourism was affected since there was no water for tourists to shower, “so they leave and don’t come back”. Water was not the only issue. “The billing system is chaotic,” he said. Ransome said Ugu’s problem was not just ageing infrastructure, but poor maintenance. mphathi.nxumalo@inl.co.za Daily News