Durban - THE opposition in eThekwini paid the KwaDabeka Police station an oversight inspection on Wednesday. DA West Durban constituency chairperson Mzamo Billy said that KwaDabeka area has had an increase in murders over the past few years. "In the 2018/19 crime statistics, KwaDabeka was among the top 30 police stations that recorded the highest number of murders, with 95 cases. In the third quarter of 2020/21, KwaDabeka recorded 27 murder cases between October and December,“ he said. This inspection comes after 27-year-old Nkosingiphile Mazibuko, who was reported missing last Monday, was found dead on Thursday on the side of KwaDabeka's main road, Khululeka Drive, in J Section, with her body cut in half. Her body was discovered a day after her boyfriend was released by police after being questioned. Mazibuko, who lived in Sub 5 in the township, was laid to rest at the weekend. Billy said it had become clear at Mazibuko's funeral that she had been in an abusive relationship. "It was a painful experience at the funeral hearing a friend talk about the relationship she had been in for many years. People also spoke about how the person suspected of doing this would pay. We don't want it to get to a point where people do that, and take the law into their own hands. We want this matter to reach minister Bheki Cele; we need to make sure that enough is done to make an arrest," he said. Billy explained that the inspection was an effort to establish progress made in Mazibuko’s case. DA KZN spokesperson on Community Safety and Liaison Sharon Hoosen, and DA West Constituency leader Martin Meyer also participated in the inspection visit, where they were advised by the station’s commander that police were following up on leads in the murder. Police could not divulge any information other than that they were awaiting DNA results, which were hoped would lead to an arrest. Mazibuko was reported missing to police by her family last Monday, after they were told by her boyfriend that she was missing. Later that day he allegedly told the family she had been stabbed in Clermont. However, the family said he could not give a straight answer when asked about the person who had told him this. They said a day after this they saw him about to board a vehicle to flee the area. They allege that when they approached his home, they saw him carrying clothes. However, when he saw them he ditched the clothes and jumped into the vehicle, which sped off. The Daily News today reported that the family said that among these clothes were his T-shirt and jeans, which were covered in blood, as well as Mazibuko’s bloodied jeans. The clothes were handed over to police. anelisa.kubheka@inl.co.za Daily News