SINENHLANHLA ZUNGU DURBAN - BUTLERS Restaurant in Hillcrest wowed their guests last week by hosting a first-of-its-kind food and Champagne pairing event in partnership with G.H. Mumm South Africa. G.H. Mumm showcased their best Champagnes at the restaurant paired with jaw-dropping meals prepared by Butlers’ head chef, Siphiwe Dandala. “I want to open people's eyes to how Champagne can be paired well with food, plus I love challenges. This event is the first of its kind in Hillcrest and surrounding areas,” said Steve Mylroie, Butlers’ manager. G.H. Mumm is a Champagne wine-growing house which was established in Reims in France in 1827. The Mumm Champagne House has developed excellence, a passion for its terroir and innovation since it was founded. G.H. Mumm’s brand ambassador, Marie Sivestre, was the master of the ceremonies for the night. She said the aim of the event was networking and strengthening current business relationships through the love of food and Champagne. “I also came here to teach people about our Champagne house,” said Sivestre. Bruleed Norwegian salmon was served as a starter. The salmon was paired with Mumm’s Grand Cordon (Brut), its house Champagne. The recipe remained unchanged and paired well with seafood as it brings out the subtle flavours of the seafood. For the main course, the guests had a duck duo of confit duck daube, pan roasted breast, cauliflower purée, braised red cabbage and black cherry juice. The main course was paired with the Olympe Rosé Champagne. This Champagne was made in partnership with Usain Bolt, the Jamaican sprinter widely regarded as the greatest sprinter of all time. The Champagne carries Bolt’s signature. It is slightly sweet and considered to pair well with the flavours of the duck and the sweetness of the jus. Lastly there was the study of chocolate dessert. The study of chocolate is one of Dandala’s signature dishes. It consisted of white chocolate mousse, caramelised pineapple, dark chocolate disc, crystallised white chocolate, macerated strawberries, lemon grass and ginger. The dessert was paired with Mumm’s Olympe Demi Sec Champagne, a sweeter offering which paired very well with the sweet dessert. G.H. Mumm’s local brand ambassador, Somizi Mhlongo-Motaung, has his signature on this bottle. “This was quite a unique experience. Pairing food and champagne is not an easy task. It requires the chef to cook differently using a lot of effort and imagination. I was impressed with tonight’s outcome. This was a truly memorable event,” said Andreas Svourakis from illyCaffe Durban, one of the guests at the event. The tag line for G.H. Mumm is #Dare!Win!Celebrate, which is an expression of the house’s involvement in horse racing, Formula One motor racing and other sporting events that celebrate excellence and innovation. sinenhanhla.zungu@inl.co.za Daily News