DURBAN - POLICE are following up on leads and are also awaiting DNA results in their investigation into the murder of Nkosingiphile Mazibuko whose body was discovered cut in half in KwaDabeka, west of Durban. This emerged on Wednesday at the KwaDabeka police station after the DA had conducted an oversight inspection of the station, where it was also learnt that a person well known to Mazibuko, who was initially suspected of the crime was co-operative, had been brought in for questioning thrice. No arrests had been made as of Wednesday. The 27-year-old was reported missing last Monday by her family and was found dead on Thursday. Her body was discovered a day after the man, said to be well-known to her, was released by police after being questioned. The DA West Durban constituency, their spokesperson on community safety and liaison Sharon Hoosen and members of its Women's Network met with the KwaDabeka police station commander who indicated that he could not divulge case details. He said, however, they had leads and were awaiting DNA results that could lead to an arrest. Hoosen said it was clear from the information given by the station commander that the police were working on the case. “Unfortunately they also are limited with information they received on this case. We urge the community to come forward with any information and help police resolve this case. “We can’t afford for another woman to die under these circumstances. We need to stand together with law enforcement to ensure that we work with police to ensure that no other woman is killed or abused in our communities,” said Hoosen. Mazibuko’s family said the man known to their daughter had told them she had been stabbed in Clermont, but could not answer about who told him this. The family then saw him a day later, boarding a vehicle. He allegedly saw them and dropped the clothes he was carrying and jumped into the vehicle which sped off. The family said that among these clothes were his t-shirt and jeans covered in blood, as well as Mazibuko’s bloodied jeans. All the clothes were handed over to police. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele remained tight lipped when asked about the DNA results and said she could not divulge information about their investigation. “What we can say is that the body was cut into half but the victim was still able to be identified so the investigation carries on. The ongoings of the investigation and if we are awaiting DNA is all part of our investigation, we cannot divulge this. “Yes a murder case has been opened and the investigation continues, there has been no one arrested.” Mazibuko’s mother Nokuthula Mazibuko appealed to authorities for an arrest. “If these DNA results see the arrest of who did this, please can they be done speedily for a speedy arrest. It’s killing us inside knowing that the person who did this was still not arrested. “We don’t feel safe, after my child was killed. The man was taken in for questioning and there were rumours that my son would torch the man’s home and since then, there’s been a car that drives past here slowly. We’d be very happy for an arrest in this case,” she said. anelisa.kubheka@inl.co.za Daily News