DURBAN - THE Department of Education has been criticised for dismissing allegations that pupils at Ziphembeleni Secondary School were fed rotten food with maggots in it without a thorough investigation into the matter. Stakeholders in the KZN education sector said the matter should have been investigated thoroughly, “as the allegations were extremely serious and posed a risk to the lives of children benefiting from the meals provided via the national school nutrition programme”. Pupils said last week that they had found maggots in their meals three times this year. They allegedly reported this to the principal whom they claimed did nothing about it. Following a visit to the school by the school nutrition director and a qualified dietician, department spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi said they had found nothing wrong with the food. He said the pupils ate in the presence of two department officials and there was no issue. A report would be compiled and tabled to the head of department. He also promised the department would follow the motive behind the “misleading” claims. DA Education spokesperson Dr Imraan Keeka on Tuesday expressed concern that the issue had not been handled properly because department officials had been to the school once, concluding the allegations were untrue. “I do not buy this report that there was nothing wrong with the food. How did they arrive at that conclusion? To me it looks like an attempt to whitewash what had been going on in the kitchens where the food is prepared.” “We visited schools during the lockdown and found perishable goods stocked in piles that could reach their expiry date. If that happened would the service providers throw them away or give them to the kids to eat?” The Educators’ Union of SA (EUSA) felt the department’s report was a cover up. EUSA president Scelo Bhengu said they had also received the complaint from reliable sources who had nothing to gain from misleading anyone. “The school and service provider became aware of the district director’s visit the day before and had the whole day to clean up and get rid of the rotten food.” The IFP education spokesperson Thembeni Madlopha-Mthethwa said the incident raises questions about the competency of service providers. They had to be monitored daily to ensure the food was of a high quality. sne.masuku@inl.co.za Daily News