DURBAN - TWO people charged with stealing a laptop out of a car in Umbilo appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. Car remote control signal jamming and theft out of motor vehicles are a concern for the Umbilo Community Policing Forum.  Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said a motorist parked his vehicle in the parking lot at Davenport Square on Tuesday evening and went to the shops. On his return Gwala said that he saw two people taking his laptop out of the car, and called for help. “The security guards, together with members of the community, apprehended one of them. The other attempted to flee the scene but was caught by police. They were found in possession of the laptop and remote jamming devices,” Gwala said. The outcome of their court appearance was not known. Umbilo CPF spokesperson Heather Roos said there were many reported incidents of theft out of motor vehicles in the Glenwood, Berea and Umbilo areas. Roos commended the two car guards who assisted in apprehending them. “With crime so high and criminals more desperate, people are still leaving laptops, cellphones, money and other accessories visible to criminals. The criminals know all the hiding spots and can get into car boots so quickly. It takes them a few seconds to be in and out of your car,” she warned. Roos said motorists had a misconception that where there was security or car guards that nothing would happen. She said car guards moved around, were busy or could be distracted by a customer, giving criminals a chance to strike. “Thieves park their car near you and block your locking signal. While you walk away they get into your car. The onus is on each and every one of us to safeguard our valuables at all times. Do not leave them in your vehicle at any time. No matter where you go, or how long you are going to be, a few seconds is all they need,” she said. Roos said theft out of motor vehicles was prevalent in shopping centre parking lots. “Don’t end up with not only losing your stuff,also  but with the added expense of having to fix a smashed window or broken  door lock,” Roos warned. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News