DURBAN - SOUTH African political heavyweights on Monday wished former South African president Jacob Zuma a happy 79th birthday. Former eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede said she wished Zuma a happy birthday and that, as a former president, he should stay strong as he was a fountain of knowledge. Nkosentsha Shezi, Radical Economic Transformation national chairperson, wished the former ANC leader a long life. “He is a gift to black people in South Africa. He has made numerous contributions to empowering South Africans.” Shezi said Zuma had made numerous contributions to the fight against HIV/Aids and the fight for free tertiary education. He said that Zuma fought for black businesspeople to get 30% of procurement in tenders so that black businesses benefited. “He is the enemy of white monopoly capital,” Shezi added. “From the Mome Gorge of the Nkandla Forest, synonymous to revolutionary icons Mbhabhatha ka Manciza  and a 96-year old Inkosi Sgananda Phum' eNkandla who started the modern-day revolution. Maphumephethe you have once again reaffirmed Nkandla as a capital city of South Africa and breeding ground for great leaders and revolutionaries. “When pessimists and clever blacks complained about the wind. Opportunists expected the wind to change but you, Nxamalala, you adjusted the sails and charted us through many storms. White monopoly capital rigged the rand and sank the economy but with your heart always with the black people you strived and stretched our coffers to feed and educate more children than ever before,” Shezi said. Carl Niehaus, Umkhonto we Sizwe Veterans spokesperson and close friend of the president, said Zuma would be celebrating his birthday privately with family and could not divulge where due to security reasons. He expected people would visit Zuma in the next few days in Nkandla and wish him a happy birthday. Niehaus said Zuma had dedicated his life to the ANC and was a humble member of the party, who often put the interests of the organisation ahead of his own. Niehaus said when he was in prison during apartheid, Zuma often visited him and fought for his release in the dying days of apartheid when the Nationalist Party government did not want to release him. Premier Sihle Zikalala also wished Zuma a happy birthday and said “... we remain inspired by your contribution to struggle liberation, development and economic emancipation of the South African, especially those who were oppressed.” Happy birthday former president Jacob Zuma. May the day be grace filled and the future kind to you #Blessings pic.twitter.com/zAPHwkzsZZ South Africa was a peaceful country when President Jacob Zuma was the president of the country. We thank you Nxamalala for your great work. Today  is your birthday we shall celebrate you and your achievements as president of South Africa ☕ danko Nxamalala pic.twitter.com/tozxtdpqYt BLF President Andile Mngxitama wishes the Father of RET H.E President Jacob Zuma(@PresJGZuma) a Happy Revolutionary Birthday🎂#ZumaDay pic.twitter.com/wtqvtqddb2 mphathi.nxumalo@inl.co.za Daily News