Durban - WHILE the KwaZulu-Natal agriculture community mourns the death of a farmer, police arrested eight men and recovered eleven guns in connection with a robbery in Mooi River. Trevor Murphy, 55, a forester from Wendover farm near Howick, died in hospital, on Friday morning, after he was stabbed by three men in his home. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said robbers stabbed him and stole items from the home, including his Ford Ranger. The same day, Lammermoor Farm owner Garth Ramsay was robbed in his office in Mooi River. Police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker said Ramsay was in his office, when two vehicles with five men arrived. Naicker said the men entered his office and held him up at gunpoint. They robbed him of his jewellery, laptops, a watch, cellphone, firearms, and the contents of the safe. Ramsay’s legs and hands were tied. Naicker said police and private security companies were informed of the robbery and they sprang into action. A white Toyota Corolla, the robber’s car, was spotted travelling at a high speed on the N3 freeway towards Pietermaritzburg. Police officers from Mooi River SAPS, the Pietermaritzburg K9 Unit, and Pietermaritzburg Public Order Police, together with security officers from Magma security, pursued the vehicle. The team were able to intercept the vehicle at Camperdown. Four men and one woman were arrested. Naicker said the men were found in possession of five firearms. Ramsay’s items were also found in the car. Naicker said the team proceeded to KwaMashu, where three men were arrested. A second vehicle, a VW Touareg, as well as six firearms were seized. The men were found in possession of jewellery and other items taken during the robbery. Naicker said the eight are between the ages of 24 and 51. Police have not linked the two incidents as yet. Provincial police commissioner Lieutenant General Nhlanhla Sibusiso Mkhwanazi said the arrest of these notorious criminals must be commended. He encouraged all role-players in the crime fighting sphere to continue to pool their resources and collaborate to stop crime. The DA’s spokesperson on Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) Chris Pappas said Murphy was a well-known farmer. He said security reports indicate that the robbers cut the fence and tied up a staff member, before stabbing Murphy. “This is the second incident in the area, in the past few months. Our court-watching unit will follow the investigation to ensure that the perpetrators are brought to book and also that justice is served,” Pappas said. Daily News 