Durban - Junior sailors from KwaZulu-Natal have been selected to represent South Africa in Denmark at the World Championships in August 2021. The RS Tera Class Nationals held this week at the Zululand Yacht Club culminated with some excellent sailing. The results concluded the selection criteria for the country’s team to go to the RS Tera World Championships in Greve, Denmark. The final team list will be announced after the Western Cape Championships 2021 this month. The RS Tera Class Nationals are held every year. Numerous Yacht Clubs put in a bid to host the Nationals and then one Club is voted as host. In 2021, the Zululand Yacht Club (ZYC), based at the Richards Bay Harbour in KZN, became host for the first time. The tournament was originally scheduled for January 2021, but due to Covid-19 it was postponed until April 2021. There were two classes of RS Tera's sailed in this regatta – RS Tera Sport and RS Tera Pro – with 10 sailors in the Sport class and 12 in the Pro class. They sailed a total of 10 races over the 3 days. The following age limits apply: RS Tera Pro – aged 19 or under on August 1, 2021 and RS Tera Sport – aged 15 or under on August 1, 2021. ZYC secretary Debra Taaffe said the windy conditions on Saturday rolled over the event to Sunday. On Sunday the wind was between 10 and 12 knots, conditions being perfect for racing and seven races were sailed. On Monday the winds were very light, about 3 to 4 knots, and only 3 races were sailed. “The spectators went out on the ZYC spectator boat Dockside, sponsored by Gert le Roux, and a fun time was had by all as they were able to see the racing up close,” Taaffe said. These results now conclude the selection criteria and the following Junior sailors have been selected to represent South Africa in Denmark at the World Championships in August 2021. The RS Tera Pro: Roux le Roux – Zululand Yacht Club; Patrick Kessel – Milnerton Aquatic Club and Hannah Sasman – Imperial Yacht Club. RS Tera Sport: Kaylynn Smit – Zululand Yacht Club; Eryn Honicke – Zululand Yacht Club and Sean Kavanaugh - Milnerton Aquatic Club. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News