Durban - At least seven rape suspects have been on the run since released on bail, some as far back as 2013. A criminologist told The Daily News these men are likely to rape again. It is nearly three years since Zwelithini Zuma, linked to seven cases of rape, has evaded police after failing to appear in the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court after being released on bail. Zuma, from Hammarsdale, was 35 at the time of his arrest and has been on the run since September 2018. He was arrested for his connection to the rapes of a nine-year-old girl and 10-year-old boy, from Inchanga. He allegedly first raped the boy, whom he dropped off in his marked company truck near the house, where he then allegedly raped the girl. The children both identified him as the “uncle in the truck”. After his arrest, he was linked through DNA to six rapes in Mariannhill, KwaNdengezi and Mpumalanga. Zuma is among the long list of wanted rape suspects on the SAPS website. Innocent Frances Esau has evaded Mpumalanga police for eight years after being released on bail. According to police, his victim was walking home from school when she was attacked by a known suspect. “The alleged suspect known to her forcefully took her to the nearest field and raped her, and robbed her of R30.” Lwazi Myaluza has been sought by police since 2015 after failing to adhere to his bail conditions. Police said his victim was 10 years old at the time and had told police Myaluza was her stepfather. “Her mother worked at night and left her with the father who used to rape her and warned her not to report the matter. The suspect, who is the mother’s boyfriend, was arrested and was later released on bail  but he failed to adhere to bail conditions and a warrant of arrest was issued against him for failing to appear in the Delmas court.” These alleged rapists are likely to strike again, said Witness Maluleka, a rural criminologist and senior lecturer at the University of Limpopo’s Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice. He described them as violent criminals, also known as “career rapists" who planned their respective operations, an indication that they had done this before. “The individuals who commit the portrayed crimes often practise it over a long period of time and they target a number of known and unknown victims. Notably, multiple rapes are committed in the reviewed cases. The potential offenders target multiple victims or a single victim repeatedly over a period of time as initially stated. “They also follow specific and predictable patterns of targeting and assaulting potential victims as further depicted in the attached cases. However, it should be highlighted that there is no recent, nationally representative under-reporting rate for South Africa that can be use to estimate the number of rapes committed cases yearly. Thus, these indicated cases are just a tip of an iceberg,” he said. In January 2019, a warrant of arrest was issued at Emalahleni Magistrate’s Court for Ernest “Hazy” Nkosi for allegedly raping a mother and daughter in March 2018. Recently, police have asked for the public’s assistance in locating two men believed to have been part of a group of seven who allegedly raped a woman in Mpumalanga. “The complainant was overpowered by seven suspects in the street driving a white Quantum where the complainant was raped and robbed.  The alleged suspect was wearing a black jacket, black and white hat, speaking Ndebele with short dreads hair and armed with a firearm while the other wore a brown jacket, brown hat, spoke Zulu with short dark hair,” said police. The Daily News