Durban - Police were called out to two Department of Social Development offices in Durban on Monday as people refused to leave, wanting food vouchers. These vouchers, provided by the department and valued at R1 350 were given to families that were profiled and assessed by social workers as those in dire need in the midst of Covid- 19. Despite families collecting these vouchers by appointment with a social worker, there was chaos at the department offices in Umlazi and Lamontville as hundreds without appointments and who had not qualified for the vouchers arrived and queued outside. A decision was taken to have the issuing of these vouchers put on hold until Monday’s confusion was resolved. “I am 59 years old,” said a resident from C- section. “We got here at 2am to find other people sleeping here. Then when the sun’s out other people who paid for spots are at the front. I am here because I need this voucher and I don’t have R50 to pay for a spot at the front. “My child died in 1999 and left me with five grandchildren I have been raising and no one is employed. We heard the loud hailer in the streets in November saying we can get vouchers if we bring a letter from the councillor and our IDS.” Another resident, 49, said in November an announcement by loud hailer in the area informed them that people who were 45 years and older, except for pensioners and those who were employed, could get these vouchers. “We were shocked to see young people standing in this queue as well, they also have these letters. We can’t even get to the front, people are standing close, some not wearing masks,” she said. Councillor Thamsanqa Mthethwa said on Monday that there was a long line of people at his office wanting proof of address letters, which he gave them, not knowing where they were taking these. “Department spokesperson Mhlaba Memela said last week there was a voice note circulating in Pietermaritzburg misleading people about the vouchers, telling them to collect them at our offices. “In November, in Umlazi C- section, yes, there was a municipal public participation van with a loud hailer telling people of other vouchers that the city was dealing with ahead of Christmas. “There must be some sort of misleading that has happened which has caused people to show up today ( Monday) in Umlazi. Today’s plan at the office was to deal with only ward 100 residents with appointments, however, there were residents from three wards. The same thing happened in Lamontville today.” Daily News