Durban - A Seaview family are awaiting post-mortem results on Monday for closure on the cause of death of a 90-year-old relative who perished in a house fire. Jo-Anne Adrianne Fourie and her dog, a Jack Russell, died when a fire swept through the 150-year-old home on Thursday night. The family will visit the Pinetown State mortuary today. Her nephew Gerhard Fourie said the cause of the fire was not established. Fourie said she lived alone, was not married, did not have any children and was a devout Christian. He said the family lived in close proximity to her home in Sunnyside Road. His father Gert Stephanus Fourie, 80, and another relative rushed to the house when they received a message that it was alight. “There was nothing we could do. We had an idea that she might have been in the house. She never went anywhere. We bought whatever she needed. We ran errands for her,” he said. When the fire subsided the firemen did a sweep of the house and debris. “They found her in the hallway. The Jack Russell was found in the toilet. We buried it. Overnight someone looted the place of anything of value. The sink, geyser, cutlery and tools were missing,” he said. Fourie attended the Full Gospel Church of God where for many years she played musical instruments in the choir.  She lived in the home with other family who have since died. In her 60s, she retired as an admin clerk for a company in Durban. “The family is in total shock. We are heartsore. A few years ago someone held her up in the home. That is why we are querying the cause of death. Hopefully something can give us a clue as to what happened.  We often told her to live with us but she wanted her independence. A man known as Linda assisted her daily,” Fourie said. “Among the debris, we found a Bible belonging to my sister who shared the same name. It was spared from the fire and water from the fire hoses. It is a miracle that the Bible came out intact. We are still struggling to understand why the incident happened. To us the fact that the Bible was not burnt internally meant my aunt did not suffer in death. God made it easy for her. It now has sentimental value to us. The Bible is my father’s only physical memory of her.”  The Fouries spent time with her on Christmas Day. Her sister in-law Lina Fourie said words could not explain how they felt. Bellair police station has opened an inquest docket. The Daily News