Durban - At least four KZN Emergency Services staff have died from Covid- 19 complications after the virus swept through the communications centre at the EMS base in Wentworth. One of the four, a paramedic, had been removed from the field because he had comorbidities. At present, the tally of infected staff is 19. Speaking under condition of anonymity, staff said screening was not done daily, there was poor ventilation, the cleaning woman spent more time off sick, and it was overcrowded. A staffer said: “Picture this, you have a call taker, he takes a call, when he answers it, the headset is on his head and then he writes on a piece of paper. He then takes that piece of paper to the case person, who then puts a case number on it. He then takes that piece of paper to the dispatcher on the radio and he touches that paper.” In addition, they said the centre did not have cross-ventilation. The staffer said some of the 19 infected were in high care because they had comorbidities, others were isolating, and some had already infected their families. He also said it was unlikely that staff contracted the virus outside the centre because they were trained thoroughly about Covid-19. According to one of the dispatchers, the Health Department said they cleaned and sanitised but infections continued. He said the second wave was “coming strong” and he was afraid of going to work. “Although they have sanitisers and personal protective equipment in place, that does not seem to be adequate. Surely something is not right for people to get infected so rapidly,” he said. “Screening is not done regularly and they are not following the guidelines.” A second dispatcher said there were about 35 people working the day shift and 20 at night. “There’s poor ventilation and the main air conditioner does not work,” he said. The department said: “All staff who work at this EMS base are screened during the parade before the beginning of the shift, and all temperature readings are recorded, while social distancing and hourly sanitising is maintained at all times. “The allegations about the communications centre being overcrowded are not true. The facility is designed to have an operational staff complement of 30. However, during the pandemic, the centre has been seeing an average staff complement of 20.” The department said a general orderly from the administrative block had been deployed as a replacement for the cleaning woman who was unwell. Daily News