Durban - A GROUP of ANC supporters who say they represent the branches of the eThekwini region said they fully supported former president Jacob Zuma and the party’s secretary-general, Ace Magashule. At a media briefing at Thokoza Hostel in Greyville on Wednesday, Mzomuhle Dube, who spoke on behalf of the branches, said they believed the alleged persecution of these leaders was motivated by politics and an effort to destabilise and “burn down” the country. “Our analysis as branches since 2017 has made us conclude that this is the battle for the soul of the ANC. The agenda is to weaken the ANC internally and finally collapse it to another failed liberation movement. The persecution is set to discredit leaders and anyone who calls for economic transformation. The aim is to label leaders as thieves in order to maintain the status-quo that favours apartheid beneficiaries,” Dube said. He was commenting after the Daily News had reported this week that a group of ANC veterans earlier made the call that the party’s National Executive Committee should be disbanded. These statements come as tensions within the ANC are on the rise as Zuma is in a stand-off with the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into Allegations of State Capture, popularly known as the Zondo Commission. Dube said the “forever prosecution” of Zuma was following a pattern of African leaders getting arrested after leaving office. “This is one of the reasons some African leaders refused to leave office – because imperialist puppet rulers would arrest them. The arrest of these leaders led to civil unrest that allowed imperialists to have access to African natural resources without disruption,” said Dube. “The attacks on Ace Magashule have become so severe ever since he called for the radical transformation of the economy. His questioning of the mandate of the Reserve Bank has turned Ace into Enemy No 1 of monopoly capital. His biggest sin was to repeat the ANC conference resolution on the Reserve Bank, and challenge the untransformed economic structure of our country. ’’Only branches of the ANC have the power to remove and elect leaders of the ANC. The position of the secretary-general is like the engine of the organisation, no car can move without an engine. Any attempt to remove him will collapse the ANC, but it will be challenged and defeated.” He said they would soon meet with various ANC structures in the province and around the country. Political analyst Professor Sipho Seepe said there were a few things that were of political interest. “First, the national and provincial ANC structures find themselves outsmarted and outflanked by the EFF in showing support for the former president. Second, this is another testament that the ANC national structure is politically paralysed. ’’Hence the resorting to what others see as abuse of state institutions to settle political scores. Third, there is no doubt that the Constitutional Court threw the rule book out in its recent judgment against the former president. And the ANC has chosen to be silent,” he said. Seepe said the ANC was silent even when Zondo Commission chairperson Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo was allegedly exposed as being both a player and referee, regarding Zuma. He said the country was suffering from poor political leadership. ANC KZN spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela said the group that was talking were individuals who did not represent official ANC structures. “These are individuals who want to call themselves radical economic transformation forces who are in actual fact suffering from Nasrec hangovers.” Ntombela said they would be meeting tomorrow, and afterwards they would talk to the regional structures. In a separate media briefing, KZN ANC secretary-general Mdumiseni Ntuli said there were many South Africans who were part of the ANC and outside of the organisation who were concerned about what was happening to Zuma, and others who supported his prosecution. Ntuli said there were people who supported his arrest, and those who were against it. “We are worried about the future of the country and we are convinced that the future of our country is deeply intertwined with the future of the ANC,” he said. “Our view is that all of us who are concerned within and outside the ANC must to a larger extent, especially those in the ANC, call on the national officials of the ANC to rise to the occasion to engage with the former president of the ANC, to make him understand  the implications of the position he has adopted given that the national executive committee including in his last meeting reaffirmed the support of the commission.” He said the NEC should convince him that even though he was willing to go to jail, this should not come at the expense of the party. Daily News 