SILINDILE NYATHIKAZI Durban - LESOTHO’S ruling All Basotho Convention (ABC) party will within the next seven days remove its Prime Minister Moeketsi Majoro. The party’s spokesperson, Deputy Chairperson of National Executive Committee (NEC) and the Minister of Development Planning confirmed to the Daily News that Majoro would be relieved of his duties as soon as Monday. “The leader of the party, Thomas Thabane, proposed the removal of the Prime Minister at a special meeting on January 29, and the majority also all agreed that, indeed, he must be removed. Unfortunately, Mr Thabane had to leave the meeting due to another engagement, so we decided to extend the meeting for a later date. The Secretary-General Lebohang Hlaele will convene the meeting as soon as next Monday so that he can be removed,” said the NEC’s Deputy Chairperson Chalane Phori. The most “damning reason” for his removal cited by both Masoetsa and Phori is Majoro’s disregard of the ruling party’s instructions. He was also accused of being responsible for the growing factions within the party,  appointing members of the opposition and his friends into key government positions “which is putting the party at risk,” said Minister of Development Planning and Treasury General for the Main Opposition party, Alliance of Democrats (AD), Tlohelang Aumane. “Relations between the Prime Minister and the NEC have deteriorated badly. From the moment that he announced at his inauguration that the former Prime Minister had told him that he would be his successor, we knew he would face a silent war and this is evident from the instability in the government,” said Aumane. “Since August last year, the Prime Minister has decided not to work with the National Working Committee. He works in a silo, he appoints his own people and friends based on favouritism and works with his own advisers who are not from the part of the ruling party,” said the ABC’s spokesperson, Montoeli Masoetsa. When contacted for comment on the Prime Minister’s position, his spokesperson Buda Moseme would not comment and instead referred us back to the NEC’s Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson. “May I forward you the number of the rightful candidate who can give you insightful information regarding this issue,” he said in a message to the Daily News. Aumane said it was also possible a vote of no confidence could be brought against Majoro which means its Parliament may not be able to pass its budget vote on time. Daily News 