Durban - With the recent turmoil that has embroiled the Mangosuthu University of Technology recently, the higher education institution has allayed stakeholders’ fears by releasing a statement saying the academic calendar was unaffected by the controversy that has led to its vice-chancellor and principal being suspended. Internal fights at MUT led to the suspension of vice-chancellor Dr Enoch Malaza and chairperson of the council Morailane Morailane after allegations of corruption, irregular human resources activities and the acrimonious relationship between the two. After investigations, Morailane was re-instated. “Council wishes to assure the university community and the public that there is no crisis at MUT. What is happening is an unrelenting exercise to deal with a legacy of rampant corruption and resisting a fightback by beneficiaries of corruption,” the university said in its statement. The Daily News’ sister newspaper, The Mercury, reported last week that Higher Education parliamentary portfolio committee chairperson Philly Mapulane had asked the department’s minister Blade Nzimande to intervene and consider taking over the administration of MUT. The portfolio committee also slammed Morailane for his attitude when he was before the panel last week. Detailing what happened before, the institution said in April last year a meeting was held to discuss matters that affected the institution, the issues were of irregular human resource activities, corrupt procurement practices and the relationship between Malaza and Morailane. SNG-Thornton was appointed to conduct an independent forensic investigation into the problems facing the institution. The report by SNG-Thornton was discussed at a virtual meeting held in October last year where the investigation made numerous findings, some of which were that: * no findings were made against the council chairperson and he has been exonerated from any wrongdoing; *the VC had made several irregular appointments of staff and approved irregular allowances; *regarding the security tender, where there were allegations of an attempted bribe, it was found that the recommended company should have been disqualified as it did not meet certain criteria; * senior official(s) at the university knew about the alleged bribe and did not take steps to have it investigated; and *the VC had made several irregular appointments of staff and approved irregular allowances. The  institution said disciplinary processes were already under way. “The university commits to see the disciplinary processes against those implicated in any wrongdoing through and will resist any efforts to disrupt this. The people of South Africa deserve nothing less. Those implicated deserve a fair process to exonerate themselves.” The university said it had hoped with the sharing of information of what has been happening, it would dispel ideas that there was a crisis at the institution. Daily News