Durban - NO surfers, business owners, vendors or recreational swimmers took part in the Beach Turn Up in Durban that was planned for Saturday at 11am at various beaches across South Africa. Blouberg, Muizenberg, Camps Bay, Sea Point, Clifton, Milnerton, Llandudno, Fish Hoek, Plettenberg Bay, The Pipe, Summerstrand, Fourth and Addington beaches were the venues for the Beach Turn Up. The invitation was for South Africans affected by the extension of the lockdown. Surfers, business owners and vendors were encouraged to take a stand against the current lockdown regulations. Their message was: “Join us in the fight against the system to regain our liberty. Let’s end lockdown together.” However, the Durban Metro Police had taken a proactive approach, which meant that no one went onto Durban’s golden beaches on Saturday, which remain a “no go” area during level 3 of the lockdown. Yesterday, Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said nothing had happened at Addington Beach on Saturday. “We had no issues at all. There was a high police visibility, so I think we planned well for it,” said Sewpersad. Apparently there were no protesters on Milnerton Beach at 11am on Saturday. Meanwhile, scores defied lockdown regulations and occupied a number of beaches in the Western Cape and Nelson Mandela Bay, calling for the end to the beach ban. “Open our beaches” read one of the placards carried by Muizenberg Beach protesters. At Muizenberg, around 200 people were peacefully removed by police. Blouberg, Camps Bay and Fish Hoek were among the beaches in the Western Cape that were occupied by beach protesters. Some protesters took to the water and some were carrying placards. There were also protesters in Nelson Mandela Bay, especially surfers at the parking lot of their surfing spot, The Pipe. Commenting on the incident, the EFF Western Cape called for the immediate suspension of law enforcement officers who failed to enforce Covid-19 regulations during various protests at Western Cape beaches and for the City of Cape Town to be held accountable. The EFF felt that officers failed to uphold the rule of law and allowed lawlessness. “Based on previous experiences, it is clear to us that if the majority of these protesters were black they would have been arrested and shot at with stun grenades and water cannons by the police and law enforcement, but because the majority are white the police did nothing,” the EFF said in a statement. The EFF said the selective application of the law and arrests were responsible for increased animosity against law enforcers. Last week a group of eight surfers, including Springbok surfers Beyrick de Vries and Ntando Msibi, as well as attorney Graham Taylor chartered a boat to drop them off beyond the sharks nets where they surfed for about two hours. Daily News