Durban - WHILE an Ntuzuma family laid to rest businessman Anthony Rungu Dimba, on Sunday, they were concerned that no arrests had been made into his brutal murder. Dimba, 45, also known as Tony Rungu Montana, was killed in a hail of bullets at his Nsephe Road home on Wednesday. Dimba was shot by gunmen in front of his family when he arrived home. His relatives, who requested anonymity, said Dimba was a successful person who was flourishing in his mechanical repairs business and had recently acquired a towing business. He started out as a mechanical engineer and then ventured into the e-hailing industry. “Due to the fact that his goal was to become a successful businessman, he always saw new opportunities and joined the tow truck industry where he began to work smart. He towed, fixed and transported his clients throughout the car industry business. He grew his clientele,” a relative said. Dimba had six tow trucks operating in the Inanda, Ntuzuma and KwaMashu (INK) precinct. The relative said that on Wednesday, Dimba had noticed a car following him. He had stopped on the side of the road and noticed the car pass by. This made him believe that the occupants in the car were not following him. He continued driving home. “When he parked outside the house, the car stopped next to him. The occupants began shooting at him. His parents heard the bangs and came outside. His son, who was there to welcome him home, tried to run to his father’s aid but someone pulled him aside and made him hide under a car. The hitmen were shooting randomly at anyone in the yard,” a relative said. Dimba died at the scene. Dimba’s worker was shot and is recovering in hospital.  His identity was not revealed. A relative said she received a call from Dimba’s daughter, crying uncontrollably, stating that they were shooting at her father. “The family are traumatised and inconsolable. Rungu made a huge impact on us and the community. He was a generous person. Always willing to help. He went the extra mile in providing skills for his employees. He urged people in the area to become entrepreneurs. He employed people from the community.” Dimba had three children between the ages of five and 17. He was buried at the Phoenix Cemetery. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said charges of murder and attempted murder were opened at Ntuzuma SAPS. Two weeks ago Siyabonga Ndlovu and his girlfriend Nonhle Ntuli were killed when they arrived home on Skhindi Road in KwaMashu. Gunmen had been waiting in the yard for them to arrive. No one has been arrested in connection with Ndlovu’s killing. Daily News