Durban - THE community role-players on the Bluff are discussing methods to prevent public violence on its beaches. Woman and children ducked for cover on Saturday after a group of teenagers began throwing glass bottles at one another at the Brighton Beach public pools. Public places such as beaches and public swimming pools were reopened two weeks ago after Covid-19 lockdown restrictions were eased. In the cellphone recorded videos of the incident, a group of four teenage boys, one of them carrying a knife, run towards a group of people. His intended target is unknown. Children and women who were standing alongside the edge of the pool dive into the water. His friend grabs the knife from him and advances towards a man and woman who begin to throw bottles at the teenagers. Both groups begin throwing bottles at one another. Children and elderly women take cover and flee up a flight of stairs. A second video shows a fight on the road level where more bottles are thrown. Kershia Cockman said the skin on her niece's hand was sliced open when a bottle struck her. She said the children were traumatised. “This is appalling. My 64-year-old mother had to run and try and protect her 11 month-old great grandson. My 62-year-old aunt tried to protect herself and the other kids. I don’t care what the fight was about … they don’t give a damn about the people around them. What’s so sad is that there were women throwing bottles in the midst of children,” she said. Andy Rossell, the chairperson of the Bluff Community Policing Forum, had called for a meeting with role-players in November 2020 after a similar incident. “We need more control with beach access, otherwise we are in for a torrid time. We are in discussions with the police. We cannot accept what has happened without a proper probe by stakeholders,” Rossell said. eThekwini ward 66 councillor Zoe Solomon blamed it on the lack of law enforcement by Durban Metro police against drinking in public. “We have crowds down there constantly. There was no searching of vehicles to control the movement of liquor. I have asked for a boom gate at the entrance to the beach to be enforced on weekends. Residents cannot be living in danger of going to the beach especially around a children’s swimming area. The citizens have a right to be protected,” Solomon said. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said no incident was reported at Brighton Beach SAPS. Durban metro police spokesperson Parboo Sewpersad said they were stretched thin on the ground with many incidents to attend to. He said with a shortage of staff it was impossible to patrol every area diligently and efficiently. He said vehicles were deployed to escort waste collection trucks in uMlazi since Friday. There were also land invasion issues. “We did respond to the scene. No witnesses came forward with information for prosecution. We are working with role-players to prevent further incidents,” Sewpersad said.  Daily News