Durban - The University of KwaZulu-Natal is at wits end alleging that despite giving in to the majority of the Student Representative Council’s demands, the student body was still not happy. This was mainly over students having to pay for residences they did not use due to Covid-19. The SRC, however, said UKZN was trying to portray them as unreasonable and said the points in dispute were actually the main points. University spokesperson Normah Zondo said the institution could not make any more financial concessions as it would endanger the sustainability of the institution. She said the SRC had 17 demands and UKZN had agreed to 14. Earlier this month, the university had a meeting with the SRC leadership where the three sticking points were that all students return to campuses and students residences, waiving the requirement for students to pay all amounts they had committed to pay back in their 2020 repayment commitment, and lastly full repayment of residence fees that were not used last year. Zondo said they could not agree to all students returning because of the Covid-19 risk. She said UKZN had 50 000 students, 22 000 of which were in residences in eThekwini and uMsunduzi municipalities, that were both Covid-19 hotspots. The university planned to have 66 percent of students back by the end of April, and all students back by the end of the second semester. This was dependent on the pandemic and the expected third wave of infections. On the second point of contention, she said: “... the University has already implemented processes (through financial clearance concessions) that effectively ensure that no single student is required to pay 100% of their debt in full prior to registration.” Zondo said UKZN already had student debt of R1.6 billion as of December 31, which was 18 percent of all student debt across all universities in the country. She said the third demand would result in a R407 million reduction in residence fees and increase the deficit to R460 million. “As a concession, management agreed that because students were prevented from occupying residences through no fault of their own or the university due to the Covid-19 lockdown, it would be deemed reasonable to consider a partial reversal of 2020 residence fee charges. However, this reversal can only be to the extent of variable costs savings realised due to non-occupancy of the residences.” Zondo said UKZN’s management was still open to negotiations. Thulani Mncwabe, Secretary-General of the SRC, said they were also open to negotiations. He said the media statement issued by UKZN was an attempt to “buy public sympathy and demonise the SRC”. He said the 14 other issues discussed were minor issues such as bottlenecks around the issuing of certificates. Mncwabe said the issue of having to pay student residence fees when they were not being used was a main issue. He said there was a case of a student who last used her residence on March 26, but was saddled with a bill of R36 000. He said a person should not pay for something they did not use. Mncwabe said he understood that UKZN was not in a good financial position, “but this did not mean that it should not illegally try to get money”. He described the argument that students returning to the institution being dangerous as moot because many general flats in the city were already full and that UKZN had turned down some of the solutions they had. “If they are not playing ball, we will take the fight to them,” he said. The Daily News