ACE MAGASHULE OPINION - It is with profound sadness that that we lay to rest one of the greatest icons of our liberation struggle. Mama Rebecca Kotane’s long life of revolutionary commitment and integrity stands as an example to all of us, of what a life committed to the liberation struggle should be all about. As such, while we mourn her passing at the ripe old age of 108 years, we also celebrate a life well lived. How Mama Kotane lived her life stands as a continuing beacon, and example, to every one of us that we should measure ourselves against. We should do so especially during a time when are faced with such difficult challenges in our country, and when our people are asking very difficult but profound questions about whether the African National Congress still fulfils its role as the leader of society, and our commitment to the attainment of our historic mission for the total transformation of the socio economic landscape of our society. It was our privilege to have gotten to know Mama Kotane during the latter part of her life, both before, and after becoming the Secretary General of the African National Congress. Every time that we met her was a profound experience, and one was struck by her humility and the humble life style that she embraced. A conversation with her was never about herself, she was always more concerned about the wellbeing of her family, her children, grandchildren, broader extended family, and the community in Diepkloof, Soweto, where she lived most of her life. We remember how she prepared for a visit by us to her family home, meticulously having written down the concerns that she wanted to discuss about her children, grandchildren, and other members of the community, so that she would not forget anything. Mama came from a generation of great liberation leaders that were known for their discipline, and meticulous attention to detail - traits that all of us as younger generations have much to learn from, and should emulate in how we live our own lives. More than anything, Mama Kotane was first and foremost a caring mother, who during the long and very difficult years of apartheid repression tried her utmost to protect her children from the oppression and ravages that the evil apartheid system inflicted on their family every day. She brought her children up mostly as a single parent, who was separated from her husband, comrade Moses Kotane, the revered General General of the South African Communist Party, by the huge workload that he was carrying, and the harassments and the arrests that he suffered at the hands of the apartheid regime, and later when comrade Kotane had to go into exile. Her loyalty to her husband, and her commitment to take care of their children is legendary. The huge sacrifices that she made, and the personal deprivations that she suffered in doing so, she mostly carried alone on her strong shoulders. Mama Kotane was never one to complain, and she always tried - sometimes almost to a fault - not to trouble others with her heavy burdens. It is painful, but true to say that Mama Kotane was twice widowed. First when her beloved husband went into exile in 1963, and then finally when he passed away in exile in 1978. It was one of the deep undiminished pains that Mama carried with her into her ripe old age, that the death of her beloved husband robbed them from being united again after he went into exile. She and comrade Moses Kotane last saw each other in 1963. That her family survived, and her children grew up, as strong adults, and committed liberation fighters in their own right, stand as an incredible monument to her fortitude and unwavering commitment never to be broken by the apartheid regime. Important as Mama Kotane’s role as wife and mother was, she was also an activist and liberation fighter in her own right. She participated in the defiance campaigns in the 1950’s, and was very active in the organisation and mobilisation for the Congress of the People in Kliptown, where the Freedom Charter was adopted in 1955. She also played a leading role in the Women’s March to the Union Buildings on the 9th of August 1956. Because of her participation in all these revolutionary activities Mama was constantly harassed by the apartheid regime. She had to face house raids, arrests, threats, and acts of intimidation. These intensified after the enactment of the 1950 Suppression of Communist Act, and the State of Emergency in 1960. Mama Kotane was detained, and she shared a cell with other struggle stalwarts such as Albertina Sisulu, Helen Joseph, Lillian Ngoyi, Amina Cachalia and Violet Wynberg. While they were in detention they were terribly mistreated and humiliated. The intention was to break their revolutionary spirits, and to discourage them from continuing the liberation struggle, and to stop supporting the ANC and the SACP. Together with these other great women liberation heroes of our struggle, Mama Kotane resisted gallantly. When the apartheid regime realised that they were not succeeding to break Mama Kotane’s spirit, they went so low as to try to entice her with money and a mansion in order to turn her back against the struggle, and she was even urged to divorce her husband. With unwavering loyalty and revolutionary commitment she rejected these treacherous temptations with the contempt that they deserved. Mama Kotane stood her ground and never betrayed her revolutionary principles, she unflinchingly continued to support the struggle to the hilt, and supported her husband - despite the terrible physical separation that exile brought between them - while he was continuing the fight against the apartheid regime from outside South Africa. Comrade Moses Kotane always knew that he could rely on his wife, and they constantly had each other’s backs. Over all the long, lonely, years of separation Mama Kotane helped to keep the name of comrade Moses Kotane alive in the hearts and minds of the people. Also after her husband passed on, she honoured his memory, and persisted with the fight for liberation. Mama Kotane’s commitment as a member of the SACP and of the ANC, to the upliftment and empowerment of the poor never wavered. The way that she lived her whole life, right up to the last breath of the 108, almost 109 years, that we were blessed to have her among us, challenges each one of us to take a close look at our own lives, and how we continue to live our lives as members of our beloved Liberation Movement. As we lay this great icon of our struggle to rest, each one of us must introspect and ask ourselves if we are good custodians of the history, and liberation principles, that her generation bestowed on us. If we are truly honest with ourselves, we will have to acknowledge that we are not doing as well as we should, and that we are faltering. It cannot be that 26 years after our first democratic elections,  we are faced with a situation where black, and especially Africans, are still not part of the mainstream economy of our country. We have not achieved better mechanisms to accelerate the empowerment of black business, and are in constant dire situations threatening their existence. It is wrong that millions of black youth are jobless, and find themselves in such a desperate situation that they do not feel that they have a future, and are fighting desperately every day just to have something to eat and stay alive. It cannot be that 26 years into our democracy our economy is still firmly in the hands of white capital, which is in fact becoming increasingly dominant, while black businesses are under threat, and instead of growing and gaining strength are constantly being undermined and fighting a desperate battle for mere survival. We fail to recognise and nurture black excellence, instead black executives are constantly being purged from their prominent roles and therefore undermining the prospects of their growth. The legitimate fight against corruption has been turned into an aberration, where it seems that only blacks are deemed to be corrupt and relentlessly pursued for every misdemeanour, while white monopoly capital is hardly pursued, and treated with kid gloves. Sadly, it seems that we have become our own worst enemies, turning on our own and devouring ourselves, while those who colonised us, stolen our land, bankrolled apartheid and committed the worse crimes against humanity, are still walking free on the streets of our motherland. Enough is enough! We simply cannot allow this to continue. This is certainly not what Mama Kotane struggled for, and dedicated her long and courageous life to. Such a shameful legacy is not what she and the many other great liberation icons of her era deserve. The challenge for those of us who are committed to the true revolutionary political principles of our liberation struggles is to learn at the feet of Mama Kotane, and so many of our liberation heroes like her,  that we may never sell out our struggle for money or a mansion. Revolutionary honour, and commitment to the true values of our revolution, is far more precious than selling the struggle of our people, to the highest bidder. A critical part of achieving our full liberation objectives is to forge unity among ourselves as black and African people. It is there of the utmost importance that we must work tirelessly for principled unity within the ANC, the unnecessary divisions among us play only into the hands of the divide and rule strategies of those whose only objective is to continue to exploit and oppress us. The great President Julius Nyerere understood this when he said in a speech that he delivered in Accra, Ghana, on the 6th of March 1997: “Unity will not necessarily make us rich, but it can make it difficult for Africa and the African peoples to be disregarded and humiliated”. As we lay Mama Kotane to rest, let us honour her great contribution to our liberation, by making sure that we commit ourselves to forging unity among among ourselves, as part of regaining the revolutionary heart of our beloved Liberation Movement the African National Congress. We must without hesitation implement the Resolutions of our 54th Conference of the ANC, which are largely about accelerating the noble goals for the radical economic transformation of our economy. The task before us, is to ensure that we return back the land to the vast majority of the people of our country, we have to ensure that we nationalise the South African Reserve Bank, and that we provide free education and health to all our people - especially to the poor. The longest serving President of the ANC, comrade OR Tambo, was very clear about the centrality of economic liberation in our struggle. He wrote: “Racial discrimination, South Africa’s economic power, it’s oppression and exploitation of all the black peoples, are the same thing”. The choice is ours - and it is a stark and very real choice - either we are going to be party to the white subjugation of our black, African, children and the destruction of their futures, or we are going to fight for them to have the truly liberated and empowered future that they deserve. I have no doubt what Mama Kotane would have expected from us to do. Her generation has made their contribution to the fullest, now it is in our hands! Hamba kahle Mama Kotane May your revolutionary soul Rest In Peace! Ace Magashule is the Secretary General of the ANC. Daily News