Durban - A letter written to ANC leaders calling for the ANC’s integrity commission to be dissolved has emerged. The letter which is in the hands of the Daily News accuses the commission of bias against certain members of the ANC. Phapano Phasha who penned the letter said that under the watch of the Integrity Committee, corrupt business networks emanating from apartheid continues to commit economic crimes and steal trillions whilst South Africans were “blindly made to focus on the incorrigible Gupta network of patronage”. “With no fear or favour, the Gupta network of patronage must be brought to book but the actions of the Gupta family and their proxies are a drop in the ocean compared to the daily economic crimes and state capture that has engulfed the country. Daily, we see the Integrity Committee participate in what we could see as clear weaponisation of ‘corruption’, and a corruption" narrative against certain leaders in the ANC. Selective application of rules.” In the letter that was released a couple of weeks ago, Phasha said that when the commission was formed and consisted of ANC elders, he was initially excited about it as it would deal with members who brought the party into dispute. Phasha said instead of being impartial, the integrity commission inflamed factionalism and turned a blind eye to grand scale corruption. “The Committee's work must be above reproach, and its impartiality unquestionable. With the growing perception of bias, the Integrity Committee continues to look like a dangerous weapon to ’arm ourselves against ourselves’ as Julius Nyerere prophesized in his famous speech in 1961 titled ’The Second Scramble for Africa’, detailing how imperialists will arm one brother against another for the ’loot’. What is more dangerous about the actions of the Integrity Committee and lack of consequence management against their favourites is to promote what Professor Miranda Friker described in her groundbreaking work as an ‘epistemic injustice’; that is the persuasive narrative which seeks to make us believe that the; Bourgeoise State was never captured, was recently and only captured by Zuma/Guptas and today is not Captured,” he said. ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe said they usually did not comment on any letters that members write as the party has about a million members. He said there were platforms within the ANC where members were able to express their views. Mabe also said the formation of the integrity committee was a decision of the ANC. Daily News 