Durban - Similarly to the previous couple of quarters, the latest quarterly labour force survey figures released by Statistics South Africa was impacted by the economic hardship that was brought on by the Coronavirus. StatsSA said the number of employed people increased by 333 000 to 15 million in the fourth quarter from October to December last year. It also said the number of unemployed people increased by 701 000 to 7.2 million when it was compared to the third quarter of 2020. “The movement was proportionately more to the unemployed than for the employed, which resulted in an increase of 1,7 percentage points in the unemployment rate to 32,5%. This is the highest unemployment rate recorded since the start of the QLFS in 2008. “The number of discouraged work-seekers increased by 234 000 (up by 8,7%) and the number of people who were not economically active for reasons other than discouragement decreased by 1,1 million between the two quarters, resulting in a net decrease of 890 000 in the not economically active population,” the report read. Pietermaritzburg Economic Justice and Dignity group researcher Julie Smith said the unemployment rate had increased from 30.8% to 32.5%. Smith said what affected the figures was that people in the fourth quarter could leave to go look for employment whereas they could not do this during the previous hard lockdown. She said the country was still in a terrible state and the economic crisis had not left. Smith also said that the holiday season would present with good statistics because the fourth quarter led to the festive season where an uptick in employment was experienced. However, she said last year’s holiday season was not as good as previous years because of the economic damage brought on by Covid-19. "It should be noted that the expanded unemployment rate was the real unemployment rate in the country and it was 42.6%, a big difference from the 32.5% which was highlighted,“ said Smith. “If one was to look at black people, then the figure was even higher and stood at 47.2% which meant that there were almost as many black people who were employed than those who were not.” From talking to women on the ground and getting their experience, Smith discovered that many people were still losing their jobs. She pointed to how many firms in Durban were now letting out some of their premises as office space, while some of these firms’ employees were now working from home. The cleaners were the hardest hit of all as they lost their jobs. The Daily News