Durban - KwaZulu-Natal’s top performing students will be studying at some of the world’s most prestigious universities. The province’s top achiever, Colombe Obono Eyono from Westville Girls’ High, will be off to Harvard University in the US to study economics and African Studies in August. “Decolonisation, colonialism and gender equality are issues that plague me the most. I’m not sure what my exact job title is yet, but I want to work in decolonising economies and improving the education of women on the continent,” said Colombe. She obtained 7 distinctions in maths, physical science, history, life sciences, Afrikaans, English and life orientation. She said focusing on God and her mental health helped her push through to the end despite the unusual schooling year. “It was more challenging emotionally due to the pandemic and the associated stresses. I work well alone, but the lack of emotional support and people really counters that, so looking after my mental health through journalling and meditation was very important for me,” said Colombe. Due to the pandemic, Shaheen Govender from Westville Boys’ High said he was now more determined than ever to become a doctor. “I’m looking forward to going to study medicine at UCT and become an orthopaedic surgeon. My mom has been on the front line specialising in Covid treatment this whole time and her tenacity really inspired me,” said Shaheen. Reflecting on the year that was, Shaheen – who achieved six distinctions in English, Afrikaans, physical science, life sciences, accounting, life orientation and maths – said the lockdown and online schooling had its pros and cons. “It was great to set my own space and work during my most productive hours, but it was harder to keep yourself motivated working hard and discipline was key. I’m glad we all pulled through,” said Shaheen. Jordane Hannah from Southlands Secondary was looking forward to becoming an actuary and giving back to her community one day. “I don’t come from a particularly rich community, so I want to show God one day how grateful I am for everything. Jesus helped me through everything and I was able to overcome the challenges that came with being a matriculant in 2020,” said Jordane. She received 7 distinctions in English, Afrikaans, pure maths, physical science, economics, life orientation and accounting, for which she achieved a 100% pass. Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu yesterday ((TUES)) praised the class of 2020 for “being pioneers in the face of Covid and refusing to be defined by the pandemonium brought upon us by the lockdown”. The event honouring KZN’s top achievers was held at Anton Lembede School of Leadership and Innovation in La Mercy. As prizes, all top achievers received laptops from the Department of Education. The Daily News