By: Silindile Nyathikazi Durban - The family of Ulundi man Lindani Dlodlo want the 11 police officials charged with his murder to be brought to book. Dlodlo’s mother Thembeni Mthembu was in disbelief that the accused policemen were granted bail and felt her family’s life was in danger. “We are not okay and I feel that I have been let down in many ways. Why have they only been arrested now after so long? We feel as though our lives are in danger because they did not even show us their pictures so we do not know what they look like. How can people who are supposed to uphold the law be allowed to kill someone and the gun has not even been found?” said Mthembu. Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) spokesperson Ndileka Cosi said the matter was still being investigated and that a report would be issued to the South African Police Service (SAPS) on whether or not the officers in question would be put off work, pending the outcome of the investigation. The 11 policemen were granted bail after they appeared in the Mahlabathini District Court on Wednesday regarding the charges. Dlodlo died on October 7 in Ulundi. According to his mum, the police apparently came looking for Ndlovu in the middle of the night as they suspected he had an illegal firearm. After a scuffle at his house, she said they put handcuffs on him and took him away to an unknown place where he was apparently badly assaulted. She found him at the hospital where he later died. According to the IPID, the police officers face charges of murder, defeating the ends of justice and common assault after handing themselves over to the Ulundi Police Station.  They were granted bail of R3 000 each and were expected to reappear in the same court on March 23. The 11 police officers are Mziwakhe Maxwell Nsibande, 49, from Mahlabathini SAPS; Khulekani Kenneth Gina, 50, from Ulundi Crime Intelligence; Mpiloyakhe Nkosiyodwa Magwaza, 39, from Inanda Tactical Response Team (TRT); Lizwi Lindani Mvundla, 37, from Inanda TRT; Thabani Praise God Ndlovu, 45, from Inanda TRT; Shengelezi Jabulani Buthelezi, 53, from Mahlabathini SAPS; Sibusiso Brian Freeman Mhlongo, 39, from Zululand Cluster SAPS; Sandile Michael Zama, 36, from Inanda TRT; Njabulo Bhekelihle Wela, 37, from Magudu SAPS; Selby Sifiso Zulu, 39, from SAPS Vryheid K9 Unit; and Ayanda Msomi, 38, from Inanda TRT. Provincial police Spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker said he could not comment on whether or not the 11 officers were back at work. The Daily News 