Durban - Two pupils from disadvantaged backgrounds will kick start their higher education journey after excelling in the 2020 National Senior Certificate exams and receiving R20 000 each from the IFP as promised by president Velenkosini Hlabisa last year. Zemali Mkhize,18, from Umtapho High School in Lindelani near Ntuzuma qualified for the R20 000 after she obtained six distinctions in the 2020 National Senior Certificate (NSC) examinations. Mkhize received distinctions in isiZulu home language, English first additional language, maths literacy, life orientation, history and tourism. She expressed her gratitude to the pupils, teachers and the IFP. “I’m very happy to get this reward. Thank you very much to the IFP. It will help me to register. Learning was very difficult but the teachers were dedicated therefore we were able to succeed.” She said her mother, Nozipho, the breadwinner, had paid for her education. Mkhize said her parents and teachers had encouraged the matric class of 2020 to continue with school and not drop out like some did. She wants to become a lawyer and has been accepted at the University of Zululand. Nozipho, 53, said she was delighted. “I didn’t think she would get these results. She was dedicated and even during meetings at school, her teachers would tell me that she was intelligent. She would even be in the top 5.” She said in future, her daughter would be able to help her because they did not come from a wealthy family. Whatever Mkhize needed for school, she provided. The second recipient, Nokukhanya Ndlovu, 17, from Mbambangwe High School in Amanzimtoti, obtained five distinctions in mathematics, geography, English first additional language, life orientation and isiZulu home language. She was unable to contain her emotions and cried when expressing her joy and gratitude. “It was very difficult. I think we only went to school for six months. We even had extra classes and double lessons so we could catch up.” Ndlovu will use the money to register at the University of KwaZulu-Natal Nelson R. Mandela School of Medicine if she gets accepted. Her mother, Makhosazana, 48, said her daughter had worked very hard during Covid-19 and managed to be successful. “I’m grateful to her teachers and the IFP. Thank you for the R20 000 because it’ll really help us.” She also did not expect those results from her daughter but “God saw her hard work, therefore she was meant to succeed the way that she did”. Hlabisa said he would do the same next year, but the amount would be increased to R30 000 for each pupil. Last year, he told the pupils that “you do not choose to be born in a poor family but to die in a poor family is your choice”. Hlabisa formalised the relationship with both schools and said he would return to discuss with the relevant heads of department what the IFP could do to assist. “The IFP believes that education is to liberate, especially the black child. We’ll knock on every door to assist the school to achieve its desired needs. We’ll support in every way we can.” The Daily News