DURBAN - Clicks has reopened 78 stores and 23 vaccination sites in KwaZulu-Natal following the recent civil unrest which affected many businesses in KZN and Gauteng and disrupted normal operations. The group’s managing executive Vikash Singh said on Thursday that Clicks was making good progress in re-opening stores and restoring essential services to areas in KZN and Gauteng, which were impacted by the unrest. To date the group has re-opened 78 stores and 23 vaccination sites in KwaZulu-Natal; and 214 stores and 42 vaccination sites in the rest of the country, he said. Stores  in Howick,  Nquthu, Salt Rock, Vryheid and in Westwood Mall are among those that have  opened in KZN. Singh said operations and support teams have been working tirelessly to clean and re-stock, looted and damaged stores. Clicks has bought in supplies and emergency medicines from other regions where necessary, he said. “We are re-establishing our supply chain of life-saving medicines and essential goods as we know our customers rely on us for their healthcare needs and medication,” said Singh. However, he said a total of 47 stores across KZN and Gauteng remain temporarily closed after suffering more extensive damages. The group said it was doing everything in its power to reopen these stores and that online orders will continue to be delivered, although delays may be experienced in some areas. Existing chronic medication scripts from 35 of the worst affected stores have been redirected to the closest Clicks buddy dispensary: Berea - scripts sent to The Spark Bridge City  -  scripts sent to The Crescent Brookside Mall - scripts sent to Liberty Clicks Kwamnyandu - scripts sent to Bluff Edendale -  scripts sent to Nedbank Plaza Empangeni - scripts sent to Richards Bay Hammarsdale - scripts sent to Delcairn KwaDukuza - scripts sent to Stanger Madadeni - scripts sent to Amajuba Montclair - scripts sent to Southway Mall Nongoma - scripts sent to Ulundi Pietermaritzburg - scripts sent to Victoria Road Pinetown -  scripts sent to Mellar Road Reservoir Hills - scripts sent to Newlands East Smith Street - scripts sent to Windermere The Ridge - scripts sent to Chatsworth Tugela Ferry - scripts sent to Dundee Umlazi - scripts sent to Southway Mall Watercrest Mall - scripts sent to Hillcrest Corner Westguard - scripts sent to Windermere Workshop  - scripts sent to Windermere Customers can visit https://clicks.co.za/store-updates for a full list of the affected stores and their buddy dispensaries. “Customers should also contact us if they need emergency chronic medication so that we can make alternative arrangements for them to collect this at their closest store or through Clicks Direct Medicines,” urged Singh. For emergency chronic medication, customers can fill in the form on the same link above or call Clicks Customer Service Centre on 0860 254 257. Meanwhile, Singh warned that medicines should only be bought online from a trusted source or a registered medical practitioner, pharmacy or hospital. He appealed to the public to report any attempted sale of stolen medicines to the police immediately. “Stolen or improperly dispensed medicines can be extremely dangerous if not stored correctly or if contaminated and may cause dangerous side-effects if not used under medical supervision,” said Singh. THE MERCURY