Durban: A 20-year old suspect who was nabbed for being in possession of drugs with the street value of R12 350 in Westham in Phoenix on Sunday afternoon is expected to appear in court on Wednesday. “A 20-year-old man was arrested and charged for possession of drugs. The suspect is set to appear in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court today,” says Colonel Thembeka Mbele, South African Police Services’ spokesperson. The suspect was apprehended during an execution of a search warrant by Provincial Organised Crime Investigation Unit detectives. “On arrival, a search was conducted at the premises, and the police found 21 plastic wrappings of cocaine powder; two pieces (half-moons) of crack cocaine and a small packet containing about 3g of crack cocaine residue powder,’ says Mbele. Meanwhile, the same unit arrested another 36-year old  who was renting a flat on Margaret Mncadi Road in Durban for being in possession of drugs. “During the search, the police found 52 loops of cocaine powder and 23 loops of crystal meth. The street value of the recovered drugs is R37 500-00. A 36-year-old suspect was placed under arrest for being in possession of drugs. The suspect appeared in the Durban Magistrates Court on June 25, 2021.” Recently, the Department of Social Development observed International Day Against Substance Abuse and Illicit Trafficking at the Ugu Sports and Leisure, on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast, on June 26, 2021. The day’s theme was ‘Share Facts On Drugs and Save Lives’, where MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza pleaded with the community to help create drug-free zones. "We need to stand shoulder to shoulder to save the lives of people from drugs. Together, we can tackle the drug problem in our country. Many families and lives of young people have been destroyed by drugs.  We have a lot of children living in the streets, and we want parents to play their role," says Khoza. The department, last month, visited a property that has been earmarked for a drug treatment centre in the Cabhane area in  Hibberdene. "Although we have centres that treat people with drug addictions, we still have a challenge. Hence, we want to open a state-owned facility. We want to remove many of these children from the streets and make sure that they get help from our facilities and provide them with skills that will help them be self sustainable," says Khoza. "We have seen a lot of lives being destroyed by drugs in this district. For us, to have a drug treatment centre will help us a lot to ensure our children quit drugs.  We are very happy that the Department of Social Development has such good plans for the district. We are going to work hard to ensure that all these children on the streets are helped," says Ugu Mayor Sizwe Ngcobo. The Daily News