DURBAN - THE eThekwini Municipality said its service units were expected to be back to normal operations tomorrow. It said refuse collection and street sweeping services will resume, and residents were requested to take out their refuse bags on their scheduled collection days. “Landfill and garden sites will also reopen. Details of categories of waste, that are accepted in the different sites, are outlined on the municipal website. “The city would like to thank all the stakeholders, who are participating in the clean-up operations that are taking place,” said the municipality. The municipality said primary health care facilities (clinics), including mobile services, will be operational. “Community vaccination sites will also be opened. Residents who are eligible to receive the vaccine are encouraged to register. “The public are urged to patient as there may be queues at the various service centres, given the backlog that built up over the past week. Residents are also reminded to observe all Covid-19 protocols when visiting the various service centres,” said the municipality. The city’s Sizakala Customer Centres will be in operation, except for centres at uMlazi Mega City, KwaMnyandu, Ntuzuma and KwaMashu, as these centres were destroyed. “All centres will operate with a full staff complement, except for the Craigieburn Centre, which will have limited services available,” said the municipality. Regarding public transport, the city said the municipal bus service will be operational, but the Durban Transport service will be operating a “B timetable” – which is a school holiday schedule – due to schools being closed. It said bus operations will start at 4am and all areas will be operational except for routes operating via Phoenix eg. Mount Edgecombe, Mahatma Gandhi Hospital. The Umhlanga service will be diverted not to operate via Phoenix. For water and sanitation disruptions, the municipality said its water and sanitation services will resume today (Monday), and the call centre will be fully operational. Residents are advised to contact the Call Centre number: 080 131 3013 or EWS WhatsApp number 073 1483 477 for more information on water supply and sanitation related enquiries or services. All Parks, Recreation and Culture municipal facilities remain closed for public use until further notice as per level 4 lockdown regulations. In addition, eThekwini Central and southern beaches are closed to the public until further notice as the shark nets are not being serviced due to the unrest. The beaches north of the Umgeni estuary up to the Tongaat River are also closed due to the contamination of the uMhlanga estuary. THE MERCURY