DURBAN - COSATU’S gender sub-structure and a Sundumbili social worker whose male supervisor allegedly attacked her with a sharp iron pipe, have welcomed his suspension. Gretta Govender, the provincial secretary of the Cosatu gender sub-structure, said they appreciated the Department of Social Development’s decision to suspend the supervisor. Govender said the supervisor’s alleged action was that of a coward and an abuser. “The department does not have any reasons to keep such a person who undermines the code of conduct and violates his own colleagues,” Govender said. Social worker Thembeka Gamede said she was relieved that the accused was suspended. Social Development provincial spokesperson Mhlaba Memela confirmed the suspension of Mxolisi Biyela, a supervisor for community development. “The matter is currently under investigation. There is a team set up by the department to deal with this case.” Memela said that after the investigation, disciplinary processes would commence and the chairperson would determine the outcome. He said Gamede has since returned to work and was undergoing counselling with a psychologist. “When she finishes her sessions in September, she will be assessed to determine if she still needs more interventions from the department,” he said. Biyela is due to appear in the Eshowe Magistrate’s Court on July 29 on a charge of aggravated assault. Earlier, Gamede told the Daily News that the incident occurred when they attended a 16th birthday party for a colleague’s son on March 20. She said Biyela’s wife had driven her husband’s car to the party. “Our colleague (host) suggested we move to the nearest park and continue with the party there, because of the small space at the house. We packed some of the things in Biyela’s car, so we could move them to the park,” Gamede said. Before they could move, Biyela allegedly came to the house and took the car keys from his wife before driving off. “We were shocked. And it was suggested I should be accompanied by one of the party attendees to fetch the party items in Biyela’s car. I agreed because we were colleagues,” Gamede said. She said that when they went to Biyela’s home to collect the items from his car, he apparently refused and allegedly started attacking her. She said Biyela did not stop attacking her until the members of the community apparently arrived in numbers and stopped him. Gamede sustained multiple injuries all over her body. Daily News