Former president Jacob Zuma began serving his 15-month jail sentence for being in contempt of court. This was after handing himself over at Estcourt Correctional Centre, KwaZulu-Natal. These were reactions from the locals in Durban. Samkelo Hlengwa, 32, from eMkhomazi said: “I am delighted that Jacob Zuma was arrested. Turning himself in was a wise move that prevented a lot of blood shed. “If he had been granted any other court appearances his followers would have gathered outside court just like how they did in Nkandla. “With ongoing court appearances, that would have led to an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases”. Sthembiso Khumalo, 32, from Inanda said: “The arrest was bittersweet. In a way, the court proceedings proved again that blacks are still oppressed. “There are still injustices within the country’s justice system and the constitutional proceedings regarding former president Jacob Zuma’s case proved just that”. Mlondi Phungula, 26, from Mzinyathi said: “I would not have also attended the Zondo Commission if I was in Jacob Zuma’s shoes. Zuma has appeared in court before and is old enough to know better. “He had the right to voice out his concerns regarding Judge Zondo, if he felt that the judge would be deliberately biased when it came to him. “They could have recused Zondo in the matter and we would not be here today. Regardless, I would also suffer the same fate if I was facing the same circumstances”.  Nomcebo Maseko, 24, from Pinetown said: “I am saddened that an old man is now behind bars. They should have placed him under house arrest because Jacob Zuma is a former president. “A person of his profile should not have to sit in with murderers and other ordinary criminals. “I have heard about the rumours that there might be a plot to kill the old man in jail. I do not think anything will happen to him". Nothani Qwabe, 37, from Waterloo said: “I am not happy at all with the former president’s arrest. Zuma has long been fighting injustices during the apartheid regime. “It is absurd that a comrade who fought for the country’s freedom is in jail. The greatest crime to mankind was the reign of the apartheid system but no one was ever held accountable for the crimes that were committed then”. Khulekani Shange, 62, from Mtubatuba: “The arrest of former president Jacob Zuma was politically motivated. His arrest was a plot that will prevent an exposure of numerous corrupt high-profile leaders in the country. “Zuma has always fought for economic transformation and inclusion of blacks. He is again persecuted for wanting that. Zuma knows a lot of truths about all sorts of crimes that are committed by some of the country's leaders. “I feel like this is the right time for Zuma to use to tell all of us about all other corrupt leaders that initiated his arrest just so they can save themselves. “I am also unhappy as a taxpayer about the police convoys that were sent to Nkandla. They should be out there arresting real criminals". Siphosethu Dlamini, 35, from Mayville said: “Jacob Zuma has come far in the political arena and fought for South Africa’s democratic rights for everyone who was marginalised in the past. “It is sad that things turned out this way. I am not saying that Zuma is innocent, but how did a judge order the Minister of Police, Bheki Cele to execute an arrest warrant while Cele has also been accused of corruption?"