DURBAN - ANALYSTS have cautiously welcomed the deployment of the SANDF to quell violent protests that have gripped different parts of the country. The various analysts who spoke to the Daily News on Monday said bringing in the army to quell the political violence often failed to bring about a lasting solution. The majority agreed that a political solution was the way to go and called on ANC factions to put their differences aside and “go down to speak to the people”. They were reacting to the announcement by the Defence Ministry on Monday that the army would be deployed in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. Mary de Haas, provincial violence monitor and honorary research associate at the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s School of Law, said the government underestimated former president Jacob Zuma’s supporters when they threatened violence. She said the police reacted very late and therefore failed to contain the violence. “More police and soldiers should have been brought in earlier and that must be attributed to government indecisiveness to correctly read the situation. Crime Intelligence should have done its work but because it was ruined under former president Jacob Zuma’s decade of rule, it was not able to function properly,” she said. De Haas was supported by security expert and former police officer Johan Burger from the Institute for Security Studies, who also blamed the slow reaction of police to the violent protests. Burger put the blame squarely at the door of the State Security Agency which, he said, was dysfunctional. “If the police Crime Intelligence Unit was working, the whole mess should have been avoided because it would have picked up the threats and assessed them, then advised the relevant law enforcement agencies to proactively prepare for it,” he said. He blamed the Crime Intelligence Unit’s inability to do its job by becoming involved in the ANC’s factional battles. Burger felt that as the protests stemmed from the political problem, a political solution was needed but welcomed the army deployment. Institute for Global Dialogue director Professor Siphamandla Zondi said despite the government’s underestimation of the threat and Crime Intelligence’s failure to pick up these threats, the main reason the response has been inadequate was the lack of co-ordination of responses between law enforcement and political leaders. Zondi said it was sad that there was no clear co-ordinated action on this from the ANC. Wits University Associate Professor of Economics Chris Malikane said he did not believe the police were failing to contain the violent protests but were sympathetic to the protesters. He said President Cyril Ramaphosa has lost the confidence of police and army officers. “Police have acted with a restraint never seen before since 1994 precisely because the officers are outraged at how badly mishandled the issue of former president Jacob Zuma was,” said Malikane. He said the army, too, would not act against the people. Suspended Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) spokesperson Carl Niehaus also rejected the deployment of the army and said it had been their long-standing view that this was a political problem that did not need to be handled by law enforcement. Pietermaritzburg-based organisation Real Democracy also penned an open letter to Ramaphosa, calling on him to offer an unconditional pardon to Zuma. In a letter that the Daily News has seen, the organisation’s spokesperson, Srini Naidoo, asked the president to resign. “Dear President Ramaphosa South Africa is burning. Your actions and decisions can quell the violence and bring us back from the abyss. We the people of South Africa ask in all sincerity that: you offer an unconditional pardon to president Zuma in consideration of the error in judgement by your regime. You release president Zuma from incarceration immediately and resign as president thereafter. It is only president Zuma who can bring a cessation of hostilities at this point in time,” reads the letter. l For the latest updates on the protests and details on President Cyril Ramaphosa’s address go to www.iol.co.za Daily News