DURBAN - WHILE a statement was released on Thursday announcing that regiments leader Zihogo “Mgilija” Nhleko had been expelled, Prince Mbonisi Zulu said on Sunday that no one had the right to remove him as he was appointed by the late king Goodwill Zwelithini. Prince Mbonisi Zulu had weighed in on Nhleko’s expulsion in a statement on Sunday where he also insisted that he was the only spokesperson for the Zulu royal family, as appointed by the late king. “I have seen the statement which was issued by Dr Dumisani Khumalo that mentioned that a decision to remove Mgilija was taken after consultation with various headmen as well as princes and princesses, but I was unaware of that as a member of the royal family. Mgilija was appointed by the late king Zwelithini and no one has the right to remove him.” In a statement on Thursday, Khumalo, chairperson of the uSuthu Traditional Council, said the meeting with headmen recommended the removal of Nhleko (Mgilija) and their recommendations were presented to the king and Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, who endorsed the expulsion. A non-governmental organisation, Injeje yabeNguni Council, also rejected Mgilija’s dismissal, describing it as politically motivated. The organisation’s leader, Phumlani Mfeka, said they were aware that Mgilija left the political party that the headmen of Osuthu belonged to and was therefore being punished. The Daily News understands that Mgilija left the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) and joined the National Freedom Party. Mgilija’s expulsion stemmed from taking amabutho to Nkandla to support former president Jacob Zuma. For a long period of time before and after the death of the late king Goodwill Zwelithini, Prince Thulani Zulu has been the person who spoke on behalf of the royal family. Prince Mbonisi said the royal family felt it should clarify its position because there had been media statements released by different parties. “The royal family of His Majesty, the late king Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu, clarifies its position amid the statements which have been released by different parties. “The Zulu royal family is still in discussions regarding the successor to ascend the throne as previously stated at a press conference. “This statement further aims to clarify that the Zulu royal family have their own credible spokesperson who was appointed by His Majesty, the late king Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu, as the family spokesperson which is Prince Mbonisi Zulu.” He said Prince Thulani, whom the media has been dealing with for years, was under the royal household in Premier Sihle Zikalala’s office and can only speak on matters pertaining to that office. Prince Thulani said he did not understand why Prince Mbonisi did not say this while the king was still alive. He said Mbonisi did speak on behalf of the royal family but this did not mean others could not speak for the royal family. Daily News