DURBAN entrepreneur Ntuthuko Khathi of Khathi Charcoal encouraged leaders to create opportunities for young people so that they would play a meaningful role and assist in developing communities as well as growing the economy. According to Khathi, developmental opportunities continued to be missed because of the misdirection of resources away from creating value for the youth to the few politically linked individuals. He felt there was lack of opportunities and support from the government, stressing that young people had innovative ideas, but without support, no progress could be made. “Institutionalised poverty continues to be the source for the lack of opportunities, inequality, and under-development in our rural and township communities A large number of youth-run businesses are sprouting up in different sectors but cannot reach the growth stage because there is no tangible support from the government.” Speaking on the political conflicts in the country, he said young people were most affected as they needed opportunities not only to fend for themselves but to grow the economy, which was now dwarfed by political fights in the governing party. “Instead of focusing on creating opportunities for the youth, we have political leaders that are obsessed with purging each other. The other sad reality is that job security has gone out the window in many industries. “If we had political leadership that had a willingness to empower the youth, they would include youth in decision-making processes, honour the youth voice, understand and implement their honest opinions and ideas, and be willing to share power and privilege to make our communities a better place for young people and adults alike.” Khathi felt there was “certainly no shortage of opportunities in South Africa, despite feelings of defeat and financial constraints”. He argued that with the right political leadership coupled with the right level of ambition and support, people would not be sitting in poverty. Reflecting on the charcoal business he and his brothers (Sibusiso and Dumisani) started in January 2018, he said it was the people’s love for braai meat that motivated them to tap into the charcoal business. “When we were on holiday in December 2016 we saw an opportunity for the charcoal business. In January 2017, that is when Khathi Charcoal was born. We employed 15 skilled and semi-skilled employees from the rural community of Jozini.” The young entrepreneur said 80% of their business came from the township shisanyama and chicken dust street vendors. He added that despite challenges associated with the Covid-19 pandemic and the lack of government support, their business was not affected and no employee had to be dismissed. “The township economy is growing at a fast pace and thus poses a huge opportunity for the Khathi Charcoal brand. We have been growing at a relatively acceptable pace for a small business such as ours, hence this year we decided to reinvest into the business. “Our reinvestment is aimed at increasing production output and capacity to meet the steady growth in demand for the Khathi Charcoal brand.” Daily News