DURBAN - ANDRIES Botha, the sculptor who made the elephant sculpture located in the city’s Warwick Precinct was highly disappointed at how eThekwini had failed to safeguard his work. The artwork has been tampered with and the elephants vandalised. “It was brought to my attention at the weekend. I was doing research into the multiple legal battles I have had with the City in this regard.“ I have an order by the High Court, stating that the City was compelled to protect and safeguard ratepayers’ financial investments by ensuring the safety of the works,” said Botha. eThekwini municipality condemned the act and called on witnesses to come forth and report the perpetrators. “I’m weighing my options to secure the best result, for myself, the ratepayers and my beautiful city,” said Botha. The sculptures were commissioned by the eThekwini Municipality in 2009 for the Soccer World Cup, but canned in 2010, three weeks before completion. This was after the late ANC eThekwini head, John Mchunu, expressed his displeasure at the elephants resembling the logo of the IFP. The municipality then decided two of the three elephants would be taken down and one remain as part of a Big Five concept, which Botha refused because it would alter the “core conceptual meaning of the work”. “The municipality was in dispute with me regarding the elephant sculptures they commissioned me to do. As there was a deadline, I could only complete part of the commission (3 of 7 elephants). I took the City to the High Court to compel them to honour their contractual agreement to remake the elephants as well as protect them from damage. The court ruled in my favour,” said Botha. The municipality decried the vandalism. Spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela urged anyone with information regarding the matter to contact the SAPS on 10111. “The damages to the sculpture by Andries Botha, Four Elephants (Facing East), has been noted. It is not clear what the intention was as the work comprises materials that will not fetch much when sold for scrap.” Daily News