DURBAN - KWADUKUZA Municipality officials had found that businesses were not complying with Covid-19 safety measures during a raid in the CBD at the weekend. Spokesperson Sipho Mkhize said the raid focused on non-compliance with building regulations, removing counterfeit goods, illegal immigrants, the infringement of municipal by-laws as well as enforcement of the Road Traffic Act. The results of the operation were released on Tuesday. Mkhize said officials were shocked at the level of non-compliance with the Disaster Management Act in relation to Covid-19. “The owners of the offending shops were reprimanded accordingly. These retail outlets will be monitored and revisited to ensure compliance,” Mkhize said. Fourteen illegal immigrants were arrested for not having valid documentation allowing them to be in the country. Of the 14, nine were arrested in a clothing store on King Shaka Street. Three were arrested at the corner of Mahatma Gandhi and King Shaka streets where they were repairing vehicles. Two were arrested working in a clothing shop in Yusuf Suleman Street. Mkhize said the owner of the shop was also arrested for employing illegal foreign nationals without any documentation. All 14 were arrested, charged and detained at the KwaDukuza SAPS. Goods were seized from three different establishments in the CBD, including 194 cartons of cigarettes to the value of R67 710, as well as branded goods suspected to be counterfeit goods to the value of R300 000. Mkhize said two businesses were closed for gross non-compliance with legislation, while two shops were found to be selling expired goods. He said that skin-lightening creams that were found to be in contravention of the Foodstuff, Disinfectant and Cosmetics Act 54 of 1972 were confiscated. Mkhize said 20 businesses were inspected for fire safety compliance, with notices accordingly served on the respective owners. “These properties will be monitored closely for further compliance inspections. Some of the buildings were found to be in a state of dilapidation and decay. Notices will be served to the owners of these offending properties that are in contravention of the national building regulations and problem building by-laws.” He said that a liquor outlet was also found to be operating illegally, resulting in the seizure of 25 710 litres of alcohol. “The owner was issued with a R1 000 fine and charged at the local SAPS for the illegal sale of alcohol. An outlet was issued with a notice and closed, as it failed to trade as per the conditions of the licence granted.” zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News