DURBAN - A KWAZULU-NATAL social worker, who was attacked allegedly by her male supervisor, wants to send out a message that women are not to be abused. Thembeka Gamede, a social worker at Sundumbili in Mandeni, was allegedly beaten up by her colleague with a sharp-edged steel pipe. Her colleague, Mxolisi Biyela, a supervisor for community development, appeared in the Eshowe Magistrate’s Court in March, where he was granted bail and the case was adjourned until June 18. She said the incident occurred when they attended a 16th birthday party for a colleague’s son on March 20. She told the Daily News that Biyela’s wife had driven her husband’s car to the party. “Our colleague (host) suggested we move to the nearest park and continue with the party there, because of the small space at the house. We packed some of the things in Biyela’s car so we could move them to the park,” Gamede said. She said that before they could move, Biyela allegedly came to the house and took the car keys from his wife before driving off in his car. “We were shocked. And it was suggested I should be accompanied by one of the party attendees to fetch the party items in Biyela’s car. I agreed because we were colleagues,” Gamede said. She said that when they went to Biyela’s home for the party items from his car, he apparently refused and allegedly started attacking her. She claimed that Biyela did not stop attacking her until the members of the community apparently arrived in numbers and stopped him. Gamede’s sustained multiple injuries all over her body. “I’m still not well after the incident. I’m being treated by a psychologist,” Gamede said. The Congress of South African Trade Unions provincial secretary for the gender sub-structure, Gretta Govender, said they had received a complaint from Gamede. She said they were disappointed and disturbed to learn of such an incident. “We want this case to set an example for every other person who is still thinking of raising their hand to anyone who is defenceless,” Govender said. Department spokesperson Mhlaba Memela said they were shocked by the incident. “We are not taking this matter lightly. It is very worrying that the people who are tasked to deal with matters of gender-based violence are themselves (allegedly) perpetrators,” Memela said. He said the matter was before the department’s labour unit to advise on how it could be handled as it allegedly happened off work premises. Daily News