DURBAN - A white-owned printing company in the Eastern Cape says it does not owe anyone an explanation for refusing to print campaign T-shirts for the EFF. Member of Parliament Naledi Chirwa and her EFF battalion were turned away when they sought to print T-shirts. Justin van Staden, the owner of Tsitsikamma Printing Shop, said he was within his rights not to do business with whomever he saw fit and those who were unhappy with that decision must understand that it was his private business and not that of the state. Van Staden said it was not only the EFF he refused to print T-shirts for, but other political parties too, because he felt politicians were misleading people and failing to deliver on their promises. “I am sorry, but we have taken a decision not to do business with political parties, this includes the ANC and all other parties,” said Van Staden. Chirwa disputed Van Staden’s claims, arguing that it was untrue the shop refused to print T-shirts for all parties. She claimed that one of the employees at the shop whispered to her that an instruction was issued by Van Staden informing employees not to render services to the red berets. “It is nothing but racism and hatred towards the EFF. We know for a fact that other parties are allowed to print T-shirts in that shop so they easily become visible during election campaigns,” said Chirwa. The EFF’s former secretary-general and member of the Central Command Team, Godrich Gardee, said the party was constantly met with harsh treatment by businesses refusing to provide services to the party because of either their racist attitude towards the left-wing party or their loyalty to certain political parties that are threatened by the growing numbers of the third biggest political party in the country. “We were confronted with a similar issue in Brackenfell when a bus company suddenly refused to provide buses after we had paid the required funds,” said Gardee. He added that there is an element of racism and intolerance towards his party as the same experience was also observed in Tembisa prior to the party’s rally in 2014. Gardee said that they could not book the Mahlareng Stadium claiming the the official lied, saying the stadium was booked when there were no reservations made. “It is honestly frustrating because everywhere we go, we get frustrated by those who are opposed to democratic engagements. In areas where other parties lead, we are denied to use community halls for gatherings,” said Gardee. He said the party was keeping a close eye on the developments and would soon take action against those being hostile to it. Daily News