DURBAN - The South African Defence Force (SANDF) and South African Police Service (SAPS) have arrested suspects, seized goods and impounded vehicles while conducting operations along the eSwatini and Mozambique borders. Earlier this month the SANDF and SAPS recovered contraband with an estimated value of R800 000. According to the SANDF, the incident took place after a stop and search was conducted by soldiers deployed on the South African/Mozambique border. “Two suspects in possession of illicit goods were arrested and taken to Emanguzi SAPS and the vehicle was impounded,” the SANDF said. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said that on Friday at 11am, Emanguzi police were conducting crime prevention duties at Esicabazi area in Emanguzi when they stopped a vehicle with two occupants. “The police requested to searched the vehicle and found counterfeit goods such as shirts, sandals and takkies. The two suspects, aged between 41 and 47, were arrested for being in possession of counterfeit goods,” said Gwala. “They appeared in the KwaNgwanase Magistrate’s Court on May 3 and the case was remanded to May 10.” Meanwhile, SANDF soldiers of 14 South African Infantry Battalion deployed along the Swaziland and Mozambique border have in a couple of weeks recorded numerous successes, including vehicle recovery and the seizure of drugs, including dagga. The soldiers of Bravo Company conducted foot patrols along the borderline. “During their operation, they recovered a white Toyota Hilux bakkie worth R450 000. The incident occurred near Gate 6 in Ndumo. Another incident also took place near Gate 6, where soldiers found an abandoned vehicle under the trees. The vehicle was handed over to Emanguzi SAPS,” said a spokesperson for the SANDF Joint Tactical Headquarters in KZN. “On the side of eSwatini, the joint efforts of the SANDF and the SAPS members are paying off in their recent seizure of drugs (mandrax and cocaine) during a stop and search operation near Pongola.” The SANDF said another incident took place near Mshololo, where soldiers saw a man attempting to cross the border from eSwatini. He dropped a bag and ran back to eSwatini. “The soldiers searched the bag and found dagga weighing 2kg, with an estimated value of R24 000,” the SANDF said. thobeka.ngema@inl.co.za Daily News