DURBAN - AFTER laying her husband to rest, the widow of former professional rugby player, Lindani Myeni, has said that she had reacted with joy knowing he was with God. She added that she was grateful Myeni had changed her entire life. Lindsay Myeni put up social media posts hours after Saturday’s emotional and moving funeral ceremony. “I trust that God has you with him. I trust that the mamas are right there with you. I trust that you’re okay right now… that’s all that matters to me. “Today should have been the hardest day of my life, but I feel joy. I feel overwhelmingly grateful. Like wow, this guy changed my entire self. He pushed me to have a stronger, healthier and cleaner and fun life,” Lindsay said. Myeni, 29, was shot by police in a suspected robbery in Hawaii on April 14. His family described his death as yet another case of racial discrimination against black people in the US. The family believed Myeni, from Esikhaleni near Richards Bay, was targeted, and did not believe the police, who claimed he was violent and that they had to fight for their lives. According to the Honolulu police department, the incident happened after officers had responded to a burglary. On arrival, a scuffle ensued and Myeni was shot four times. Bodycam footage released by the Honolulu police showed that officers failed to identify themselves when they approached Myeni. They were heard shouting “police” after shots were fired. Lindsay has said that she is suing the Honolulu police for the murder. At the funeral, Lindsay said her goodbyes to the man she described as many things to many people, but to her he was her home, her safe place, her king and a memory she never wanted to end. “I know we will all be okay with time, but I needed to know that he was okay and God has sent me a sign to say that he is. He has changed the world forever,” said Lindsay. Speaking on behalf of the government at the funeral, Transport Community Safety and Liaison MEC Peggy Nkonyeni said Myeni’s death must not be seen as just another isolated racist and systematic incident, but it should be viewed within the context of the US’s politics of domination and racially motivated exclusions, an unwritten policy that criminalises blackness. “The American police did not only kill a father, son, an uncle, a brother, an exceptional sportsman, but they also killed a cultural activist, from whom they could have benefited immensely given the cultural deficiencies with racist undertones prevalent today in the US.” sne.masuku@inl.co.za Daily News