DURBAN - WHILE police hunt for the killers of Ndwedwe acting station commander Lieutenant-Colonel Jabulani Ndawonde, the Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) has called for communities to work together with the police. National police spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said Ndawonde was gunned down near the Bhamshela Taxi Rank. Occupants travelling in a mini pick-up truck opened fire on Ndawonde, 56, as they passed his vehicle. Ndawonde’s funeral service took place on Saturday at the Ngcongangconga sports ground. Cele said that in April and May alone, 16 officers had been killed. Popcru spokesperson Richard Mamabolo said the rising death rates and injuries to police and community members received little attention. Mamabolo said the SAPS had lost more than 26 of its members in 2021. The senseless surge in police killings could not be solved until SAPS management, communities and all stakeholders fast-tracked co-operation by working together to find lasting solutions, he said. “We can no longer afford to remain under the illusion that there is no protracted war ahead of us. A war declared by heartless criminals not only on our men and women in blue, but on entire communities. “Many of our officers are killed on and off duty due to the kinds of cases they are handling; for their firearms; due to the lack of respect of the community for the police; poor levels of trust and co-operation between the two; alleged corruption in the police; poor service delivery, inadequate resources and a lack of back-up.” Mamabolo was concerned that there has been no outrage and no public outcry from activists and NGOs. “With the underlying challenges faced, such as the uneven allocation of resources within poor areas, staff shortages, continued infighting within leadership structures and budget cuts, among others, many communities’ impression remains that of scepticism of the police, thus delaying the unity-building processes,” Mamabolo said. Popcru urged police officers to have functional guns and bulletproof vests. It also called for intensified, continuous tactical training to enhance self-defence mechanisms. It said a study into police killings should be conducted, and recommendations implemented. It also called for the Firearms Control Amendment Bill to be fast-tracked. Mamabolo said unlawful firearms were the root cause of murders, and that bail must be denied to police killers. Daily News