DURBAN Coastal Mental Health’s Sherwood facility’s new board was working on a turnaround strategy that would see transparency prevail. It was recovering from mismanagement by its former board chairperson who had allegedly hired a chief financial officer (CFO) who was grossly unqualified and had trebled her own salary while in the position. Chairperson Sthandiwe Mkhize told the Daily News about an incident where a chef took the kitchen and pantry keys, leaving residents hungry. Mkhize said they reported the matter, which had since been resolved, to the police. “Outgoing service providers do use bullying tactics when their services are terminated,” Mkhize said. He said there were allegations of fraud against the service provider, which led to his termination. Mkhize said the new board had inherited many problems and was working on a full turnaround strategy after the Department of Health recommended they conduct a preliminary internal forensic investigation. “We have a new CFO who joins us to assist us with a financial turnaround strategy.” He said that having unqualified people in leadership positions at a senior management level at the facility was a challenge they faced. Concerned parents and guardians of residents at the centre believed the latest incident to be a tipping point. A parent, who did not want to be named, said that the chef had allegedly claimed he had not been paid for months. “There is a severe crisis. I believe the board is also problematic and lacks governance. As parents, we are trying to work with them as much as possible. We will make our displeasure known.” Another parent said that since June last year they had heard that a stream of service providers had not been paid for months. A concern over the financial situation at the centre was also raised, which some believed was the reason for the issues with service providers as well as the deteriorating living conditions at the centre. “I believe they were in the red for R6 million, and some service providers were taking them to court. They do not even get toilet rolls regularly,” a parent said, adding that since the incident last Wednesday, parents were helping to provide meals for residents. lorna.charles@inl.co.za Daily News