DURBAN Police are investigating yet another shooting in Wentworth, following an incident that left a man wounded on Monday. The man was recovering in hospital after being shot three times in a drive-by shooting in Wentworth, south of Durban, on Monday. The incident happened in Woodville Road, where rival drug gangs have been killing each other for the past year. Wentworth police confirmed that a case of attempted murder had been opened. This shooting comes just days after a bystander was shot and killed in a drive-by shooting in the area. Rabia Elouise had been standing at the entrance of block 25 flats, on Burgess Road on Friday night, when she was shot in the drive-by shooting. This, as a suspected burglar was shot dead and another was a critical condition n hospital, after a group of men stormed their hideout in Newlands West, Durban, on Sunday night. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said Newlands East police received a complaint of a shooting on Jackcastle Road and found two known men with gunshot wounds being attended to by paramedics. “The first victim later succumbed to his injuries at the scene, while the second victim was taken to hospital for medical attention,” Gwala said. A source said four men entered the abandoned house and shot the victims. It was alleged that the victims were involved in a spate of burglaries in the area. They allegedly also consume drugs in the abandoned building. Private security company KZN VIP Unit spokesperson Gareth Naidoo said they received calls from residents that gunshots were fired. “While the armed response officer was patrolling the area, he noticed a man walking out of the bushes. “Upon closer inspection, he saw that the man had multiple gunshot wounds. The man died on the roadside,” he said. Naidoo said that while searching the area, KZN VIP members noticed a trail of blood leading to vacant houses near Jackcastle and Castlehill drives. “While searching the houses, a man was found with four gunshot wounds. This vacant house had beds, possible housebreaking equipment, and drugs to the street value of R1 000 was found. We also found clothes and handbags belonging to women,” Naidoo said. Charges of murder and attempted murder were opened at Newlands East police station for investigation. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News