DURBAN - THE Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has come out guns blazing, accusing Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan of randomly invoking legislation and not operating transparently within a fair democratic process. The red berets were reacting to a Public Service Commission (PSC) report which found Gordhan had not acted irregularly when he appointed his chief of staff, Nthabiseng Borotho, who did not meet the requirements for the job. EFF spokesperson Vuyani Pambo said the report conveyed a message that “Gordhan invokes legislation to unilaterally appoint those he prefers regardless of whether they are qualified or not”. “The report simply vindicates us in that Gordhan operates a patronage network that is not based on merit but on the appointment of those loyal to him outside of any due process and with a complete disregard for minimum qualification requirements,” Pamdo said. “The fact that the PSC report said a deviation was granted for the appointment of Ms Borotho to ensure the waiving of qualification requirements does not make the decision rational and reeks of the use of legislation to make dubious appointments,” he said. Pambo added that the absence of a selection committee did not make the appointment “any less suspicious or concerning”. The party commended the PSC, saying it performed its tasks as required, but argued that the conclusion on the regularity of the appointment was debatable. Pambo said that invoking of legislation was opposed to transparency, and due process was something that should be scrutinised much deeper. Floyd Shivambo, the EFF’s chief whip in the National Assembly, had lodged a complaint with the PSC requesting it to investigate allegations of Borotho’s irregular appointment. The PSC findings confirmed there had been no selection committee appointed for the adjudication of the process of filling the post and no interviews were conducted. It also found that Senzo Mchunu, the Minister for Public Service and Administration, approved the deviation from the minimum qualification requirement which Gordhan requested for Borotho’s appointment. The appointment was declared lawful and regular as Gordhan had obtained a green light from Mchunu. Gordhan had previously requested that the requirements be suspended to make place for Borotho whom he held in high regard, emphasising she was well experienced as she apparently had the level of understanding of the relevant departmental mandates, and the ability to identify problems and find innovative solutions. Mchunu approved the deviation on September 26, 2019. Approached for comment, Public Enterprises Ministry spokesperson Richard Mantu requested the Daily News to forward the report. However, no comment had been received by the time of publication. Borotho did not respond to emails or calls. thabo.makwakwa@inl.co.za Daily News