DURBAN - THE Phoenix Community Policing Forum is calling on the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) to give harsher penalties to drug dealers. CPF chairperson Umesh Singh said drug dealers were popping up like mushrooms in Phoenix which had left the suburb ravaged by its effects. On Friday night, a drug dealer was arrested in Avalen Crescent with 30 000 heroin capsules. Police also seized R600 000 in cash. He is due to appear in the Verulam Magistrate's Court on Monday on charges of dealing in, and possession of heroin. Singh said information from the public led to a significant blow to the drug operations in Phoenix. “Some people deal in drugs to get an income. We’ve seen whoonga usage increase. The community needs to come forward. Steps will be taken to ensure strict confidentiality. Some cases are thrown out because of minor investigation flaws. The courts are too lenient. They should engage with the investigating officers to ensure all loopholes are closed. Some dealers are back on the street because their cases were withdrawn after a few years. It is unacceptable.” Durban Metro Police spokesperson Parboo Sewpersad said the accused was identified as a member of a syndicate allegedly storing the drugs. The man was monitored, stopped and searched while driving a Honda which doubled as a private taxi service, he said. The Durban Drug Task Team found him with 39 heroin (blue and clear) capsules. “Police searched his home where they recovered more drugs and cash. The syndicate head and two other accused from Phoenix were also arrested two weeks ago with drugs.” In a separate drug bust, police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said the provincial drug and firearm unit acted on information of drugs being packaged at a premises in Morningside Village in Durban. A dealer was arrested in possession of 2 500 blue and white empty capsules and 382.2g of heroin powder and the drugs were valued at approximately R90 000. “Further investigation led members to a premises at Gateway flats. Another dealer was found in possession of 2kg of cocaine.” Daily News