DURBAN - DNA TESTING is under way to identify the remains of the seven people who died in the fiery multiple-vehicle crash on the N3 on Monday afternoon. Last night, Kwazulu Private Ambulance (KZPA) learnt that one of the critical patients had died taking the death toll to eight. “Paramedics had difficulty in assessing the scene or even getting close to it due to the dangerous flames,” KZPA said. “Once the fire was extinguished, emergency services sadly found seven patients that had been trapped in the bakkie and died in the fire.” KZPA said 17 people sustained minor injuries, four serious injuries and three critical injuries. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said Mooi River police were probing a case of culpable homicide. Mbele said the victims were aged between 26 and 49. KwaZulu-Natal Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Peggy Nkonyeni on Tuesday said all the vehicles involved in the crash were taken to the Provincial Road Traffic Inspectorate Station in Estcourt, Midway and the tanker truck was recovered after decontamination. The department said preliminary investigations revealed that about 7km to the Mooi River Toll Plaza from Estcourt, a crash involving a tanker truck and passenger bus occurred. It was later discovered that there was a bakkie trapped underneath the bus. The bus was travelling towards Durban and the bus driver allegedly lost control of the vehicle, veered on to the northbound carriageway and collided with a rigid truck and also collided with a tanker truck. Upon impact, the bus, tanker truck and bakkie caught alight. According to the owner of the bakkie, there were seven occupants inside, who were all burnt beyond recognition as they were trapped underneath the bus. “This accident is one of the most gruesome I have witnessed since I assumed office in this portfolio. It pains me that families had to lose their loved ones in such a horrific manner and have not yet found closure as the remains of the deceased still have to undergo extensive DNA testing and authentication,” said Nkonyeni. She said once testing was concluded, they would assist the families with the burials. Nkonyeni also urged motorists to exercise extreme caution and be extra-vigilant on the road. thobeka.ngema@inl.co.za Daily News