DURBAN - RK Khan, one of the hospitals selected by the Department of Health as one of the official Covid-19 vaccination sites, has had its hall refurbished and re-purposed several times over the past year to accommodate over 200 people. The hospital hall received a much-needed revamp and due to its size and multi-functional space, the hall was being altered from a nurses dining hall into a meeting, conference and event venue. It desperately needed a refurbishment which was undertaken as part of a Corporate Social Investment (CSI) initiative by Bonitas Medical Fund. It was a phased work schedule to allow Bonitas employees to get involved and ‘give back’. The RK Khan Hospital Hall was one of the four facilities identified and upgraded. The projects varied according to the most urgent needs at the healthcare facilities, all with a common goal: To upgrade facilities to benefit the hospital, staff and the communities they serve. The other refurbishment projects were at The Job Shimankana Tabane Provincial Hospital in Rustenburg, Dr George Mukhari Academic Hospital in Ga-Rankuwa and the Tembisa Hospital in Gauteng. The hospitals were strategically selected based on need and aligned to the geographic footprint of Bonitas membership base. Bonitas principal officer Lee Callakoppen said the project rollout plan included assisting both financially and being hands on in the upgrades. “As the medical aid for South Africa, we strive to make quality healthcare more accessible and more affordable. It is our firm belief that collaboration between the public and private healthcare sectors are essential to uplift the healthcare ecosystem of the country,” he said. He said they are proud of the positive impact of these refurbishment projects. Callakoppen said there is still much to be done but this is a first step in a process of establishing partnerships to try and address and solve some of the public healthcare challenges while upgrading facilities for both the staff and patients.. “The RK Khan Hospital is a perfect example, having re-purposed the upgraded hall to deal with the immediate and changing healthcare needs of the community.” RK Khan PR Officer Mbali Mthalene said the hall became the ‘go-to’ place for meetings during the first wave of the Covid-19 outbreak. “It allowed staff to maintain social distancing while holding urgent meetings about the pandemic. Now, a year later, the hall will again be used in the fight Covid-19. This time it will be the hospital’s official vaccination station comprising screening and registration points, four vaccination stations, a post vaccination observation point and an emergency resuscitation area. The hall is truly an asset to our hospital as it has provided us with a clean, airy and aesthetically appealing, multi-functional space”. sne.masuku@inl.co.za Daily News