DURBAN - ROAD Traffic Inspector (RTI) Devan Naik, 46, was allegedly trying to stop a black Golf, suspected of transporting drugs, and travelling at 200km/h when another car slammed into him on the N2 near Prospecton on Sunday. This was contained in a preliminary report by the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Transport. Naik died in hospital on Tuesday night. A spokesperson for the department, Kwanele Ncalane, said Naik was on duty, in full uniform including reflective clothing, with a colleague on the N2 southbound near Prospecton. “It is alleged that Inspector Naik picked up a black Golf that was driving at very high speed, over 200km/h. While trying to stop the Golf, Naik was knocked by another vehicle, a Hyundai Accent sedan, that was travelling in the fast lane. “The driver of the Golf was suspected to be conveying drugs. “He was being pursued from Spaghetti Junction by Durban metro police,” Ncalane said. Naik sustained a critical head injury and several broken bones. “The driver was apprehended next to the scene of the accident. The driver of the Golf was found in possession of drugs,” Ncalane said. The department said it was deeply shocked and saddened by Naik’s death. Naik began his duties as an inspector in June 2004 and was stationed at RTI Winklespruit. Ncalane said Naik would always be remembered by his colleagues and management as a peacemaker at the station. “He was one of the most senior officers that was committed and dedicated in the struggle of saving lives in our provincial network/roads,” he said. Naik’s funeral will take place on Thursday at the Clare Estate Crematorium. Metro police spokesperson Parboo Sewpersad said the driver of the Golf was charged with reckless and negligent driving and for being in possession of crystal meth, rock cocaine and a pipe. A police source said RTI needed to reassess how vehicles were stopped on national roads. “We cannot afford for more officers to be killed, running on to a major national road,” the source said. A minibus taxi driver who ploughed into Durban metro policeman Johan Deysel in January 2019 in eManzimtoti was found guilty of culpable homicide and sentenced. zainul.dawood@inl.co.za Daily News